The Rat, belonging to the month of December, finds its counterpart in the zodiac sign Sagittarius. The Ox in January equates with Capricorn. The Tiger, ruling February, shares many of the characteristics we associate with Aquarius. The Rabbit and Pisces belong to March. The Dragon and Aries cohabitate in April. The Snake and Taurus are associated with May. The Horse and Gemini reside in June. The Sheep and Cancer are akin to July. The Monkey and Leo reign in August. The Rooster and Virgo govern September. The Dog and Libra are linked with October. The Boar and Scorpio come together in November.

In China, certain years are dreaded because of the combination of their element and sign. An outstanding example of this is the Year of the Fire Horse. Women, in particular (an old Confucian bias), who are born in this year are said to wreak havoc on their families and spouses because of their unbridled passions, and in times past a female unfortunate enough to be born in this year might actually be killed as an infant.

The lunar calendar day begins at 11 P.M., and the twenty-four hours of the day are divided into twelve two-hour segments, each ruled by one of the animal signs. Thus the hours between 11 P.M. and 1 A.M. are ruled by the Rat, 1 A.M. to 3 AM. by the Ox, and so on. As in Western astrology, the sign ruling your time of birth is the ascendant and has a strong influence on your personality. A Dragon born in the Hours of the Sheep is likely to be more modest and diplomatic than we might usually expect from this proud, egotistical, eccentric, and aristocratic animal sign. A courageous and determined Sheep, on the other hand, was more than likely born during the Hours of the Dragon.The twelve signs are also divided into active and passive, or positive and negative—not in any pejorative sense, but in terms of Yin and Yang (the male and female energy the Chinese believe is the governing force in the universe). The Rat, Tiger, Dragon, Horse, Monkey, and Dog belong to the positive stem, while the Ox, Rabbit, Snake, Sheep, Rooster, and Boar belong to the negative.

# Getting Along with Others

Chinese astrology provides much information about which signs make good partners, lovers, and friends. Just as with the polarities of a magnetic field, where two positives make a negative, Yin will attract Yang but repel another Yin, as Yang will attract Yin but repel another Yang. Order and harmony in the universe, as well as within the body, is based on keeping the Yin and Yang in delicate balance. In the Chinese horoscope, all conflicting signs belong to the same stem. However, only those signs that are directly opposite one another generate any repelling force. When you look at the Triangles of Affinity, you will see how three positive or negative signs can actually be harmonious together when they are 120 degrees apart. A Dragon-Monkey match, for instance, is deemed a highly compatible and beneficial union, even though they both belong to the positive stem.In the Chinese horoscope, each of the twelve lunar signs is assigned a compass point. Signs that form a triangle make the best unions.

The first triangle is made up of the positive doers—the Rat, Dragon, and Monkey. These are the self-motivated initiators and innovators, full of dynamic energy and ambition, who act without hesitation or doubt. They pair up well with one another in any combination, as they all complement each other's ways of thinking and operating. As we have already seen, the United States of America was born in the Year of the Monkey (1776). The Commonwealth of Australia was born in the Year of the Rat (1900), and these two countries not only share much in common but continue to enjoy ongoing friendly relations. It was the United States, not Britain, that came to Australia's aid during World War II.


!Affinity Triangles
Affinity TrianglesAs we have already seen, the United States of America was born in the Year of the Monkey (1776). The Commonwealth of Australia was born in the Year of the Rat (1900), and these two countries not only share much in common but continue to enjoy ongoing friendly relations. It was the United States, not Britain, that came to Australia's aid during World War II.

|         |     |      |       |    |       |        |
| ------- | --- | ---- | ----- | -- | ----- | ------ |
| Rooster | Dog | Boar | Rat   | Ox | Tiger | Rabbit |
| Monkey  |     |      |       |    |       | Dragon |
| Sheep   |     |      | Horse |    |       | Snake  |

Incompatibility CircleThe second triangle is that of the dutiful and steadfast Ox, Snake, and Rooster. All three are distinguished by their sublimity, constancy, and perseverance. Stalwart and fixed in their views, they are slow and steady in their movements, rely on their own judgments, and plan their actions systematically. Guided by their heads rather than their hearts, they are considered the most intellectual of the signs and like to act independently.

The third triangle is made up of the Tiger, the Horse, and the Dog. They are honest, open, humanitarian, and idealistic. They are social animals, extroverted, energetic, communicative, generous, impulsive, and defiant in the face of adversity and injustice.

The fourth triangle is composed of the intuitive and emotionally driven signs of the Rabbit, the Sheep, and the Boar. These three are expressive and eloquent in aesthetic and artistic ways and rely on their senses and feelings to guide and motivate them. They are thought to be of calmer and gentler disposition and have more compassionate and sensitive natures than the other signs of the cycle. They are drawn toward beauty and the higher aspects of love and advocate peaceful coexistence.

Signs directly opposite each other, as shown in the Incompatibility Circle, are in direct conflict, and any matches between them do not bode well for the long term. 

Thus the Rat and the Horse will encounter their greatest rivalries and conflicts with each other, as will the Ox and the Sheep, the Tiger and the Monkey, the Rabbit and the Rooster, the Dragon and the Dog, and the Snake and the Boar.Signs not directly opposite one another will experience compatibility or indifference to varying degrees, some making very good and complementary secondary matches outside the three primary matches of the Affinity Triangle, for example, a Dragon and a Snake. Incompatibility is based on six degrees of separation.


# How the Five Elements Influence Personality

## Metal

Those born in years controlled by Metal are ambitious, success-oriented, determined, and persevering. Resolute and unhesitating in conduct and expression, they are guided by powerful feelings, and at times can be unreasonably stubborn and inflexible. They have strong financial acumen (Metal is the element associated with money) and will use it to enhance their appetite for luxury and power. Willful and opinionated, they need to learn the value of compromise and desist from rigidly insisting on always having things entirely on their own terms.

## Water

People born in years ruled by Water are fluid, like their element. They penetrate rather than dominate, and like a river or stream, are able to wear away any obstacles in their path through their quiet and indomitable perseverance. They are skillful communicators, able to transmit their ideas and influence others. In their negative state they can be too conciliatory and passive, and over-reliant on the support of others. To succeed, they must learn to be more assertive and actively use their powers of persuasion to turn their dreams and visions into reality.## Wood

Those born under the Wood element are said to possess high moral standards and advocate consistent growth and renewal. They are extremely self-confident and progressive, with executive abilities that enable them to take on large and cooperative ventures. Because of their generosity and innate and sympathetic understanding of others, they are able to generate support and financial backing for whatever they undertake. Their main drawback is an enthusiastic and overconfident tendency to take on too much and thus risk accomplishing nothing.

## Fire

People born under the influence of this element are natural-born leaders, charismatic and dynamic in speech and action. Adventurous, ambitious, impulsive, and undaunted by risk, they have the greatest capacity to inspire others and realize their goals. Their forcefulness and ambition, however, can also work against them, and they can become selfish, inconsiderate, and restless when unable to get what they want. The warmth and brightness of the Fire element naturally draws people to them, but it can also be destructive when not kept under control.
## Earth

Those born under the Earth element are known for their pragmatic and conservative natures. They are prudent with their finances and are capable planners and administrators. Reliable and methodical, they are not given to exaggeration or embellishment, and can be expected to present things simply as they are, or at least as they see them. On the negative side, they can suffer from a certain lack of imagination and adventurousness, and can be too critical and overly concerned with protecting their own interests.

# Using This Book

To go further, you need to find your sign by referring to the table on the following pages which details the lunar years for each sign.

To use the system as a fortune telling device, you can read the first section of each sign—it details the general characteristics of a particular year that are applicable for everyone. For instance, the year 2000 is the Year of the Dragon. By reading what the year will be like, you will gain insights into general forces and tendencies.| Sign    | Lunar Year                            | Element   |
| ------- | ------------------------------------- | --------- |
| Rat     | January 31, 1900 to February 18, 1901 | Metal (+) |
| Ox      | February 19, 1901 to February 7, 1902 | Metal (-) |
| Tiger   | February 8, 1902 to January 28, 1903  | Water (+) |
| Rabbit  | January 29, 1903 to February 15, 1904 | Water (-) |
| Dragon  | February 16, 1904 to February 3, 1905 | Wood (+)  |
| Snake   | February 4, 1905 to January 24, 1906  | Wood (-)  |
| Horse   | January 25, 1906 to February 12, 1907 | Fire (+)  |
| Sheep   | February 13, 1907 to February 1, 1908 | Fire (-)  |
| Monkey  | February 2, 1908 to January 21, 1909  | Earth (+) |
| Rooster | January 22, 1909 to February 9, 1910  | Earth (-) |
| Dog     | February 10, 1910 to January 29, 1911 | Metal (+) |
| Boar    | January 30, 1911 to February 17, 1912 | Metal (-) |
| Rat     | February 18, 1912 to February 5, 1913 | Water(+)  |
| Ox      | February 6, 1913 to January 25, 1914  | Water (-) |
| Tiger   | January 26, 1914 to February 13, 1915 | Wood (+)  |
| Rabbit  | February 14, 1915 to February 2, 1916 | Wood (-)  |
| Dragon  | February 3, 1916 to January 22, 1917  | Fire (+)  |
| Snake   | January 23, 1917 to February 10, 1918 | Fire (-)  |
| Horse   | February 11, 1918 to January 31, 1919 | Earth (+) |
| Sheep   | February 1, 1919 to February 19, 1920 | Earth (-) |
| Monkey  | February 20, 1920 to February 7, 1921 | Metal (+) |
| Rooster | February 8, 1921 to January 27, 1922  | Metal (-) |
| Dog     | January 28, 1922 to February 15, 1923 | Water (+) |
| Boar    | February 16, 1923 to February 4, 1924 | Water (-) |

| Sign | Lunar Year | Element |
|---|---|---|
| Rat | February 5, 1924 to January 24, 1925 | Wood (+) |
| Ox | January 25, 1925 to February 12, 1926 | Wood (-) |
| Tiger | February 13, 1926 to February 1, 1927 | Fire (+) |
| Rabbit | February 2, 1927 to January 22, 1928 | Fire (-) |
| Dragon | January 23, 1928 to February 9, 1929 | Earth (+) |
| Snake | February 10, 1929 to January 29, 1930 | Earth (-) |
| Horse | January 30, 1930 to February 16, 1931 | Metal (+) |
| Sheep | February 17, 1931 to February 5, 1932 | Metal (-) |
| Monkey | February 6, 1932 to January 25, 1933 | Water (+) |
| Rooster | January 26, 1933 to February 13, 1934 | Water (-) |
| Dog | February 14, 1934 to February 3, 1935 | Wood (+) |
| Boar | February 4, 1935 to January 23, 1935 | Wood (-) |
| Rat | January 24, 1936 to February 10, 1937 | Fire (+) |
| Ox | February 11, 1937 to January 30, 1938 | Fire (-) |
| Tiger | January 31, 1938 to February 18, 1939 | Earth (+) |
| Rabbit | February 19, 1939 to February 7, 1940 | Earth (-) |
| Dragon | February 8, 1949 to January 26, 1941 | Metal (+) |
| Snake | January 27, 1941 to February 14, 1942 | Metal (-) |
| Horse | February 15, 1942 to February 4, 1943 | Water (+) |
| Sheep | February 5, 1943 to January 24, 1944 | Water (-) |
| Monkey | January 25, 1944 to February 12, 1945 | Wood (+) |
| Rooster | February 13, 1945 to February 1, 1946 | Wood (-) |
| Dog | February 2, 1946 to January 21, 1947 | Fire (+) |
| Boar | January 22, 1947 to February 9, 1948 | Fire (-) |

| Sign | Lunar Year | Element |
|---|---|---|
| Rat | February 10, 1948 to January 28, 1949 | Earth (+) |
| Ox | January 29, 1949 to February 16, 1950 | Earth (-) |
| Tiger | February 17, 1950 to February 5, 1951 | Metal (+) |
| Rabbit | February 6, 1951 to January 26, 1952 | Metal (-) |
| Dragon | January 27, 1952 to February 13, 1953 | Water (+) |
| Snake | February 14, 1953 to February 2, 1954 | Water (-) |
| Horse | February 3, 1954 to January 23, 1955 | Wood (+) |
| Sheep | January 24, 1955 to February 11, 1956 | Wood (-) |
| Monkey | February 12, 1956 to January 30, 1957 | Fire (+) |
| Rooster | January 31, 1957 to February 17, 1958 | Fire (-) |
| Dog | February 18, 1958 to February 7, 1959 | Earth (+) |
| Boar | February 8, 1959 to January 27, 1960 | Earth (-) |
| Rat | January 28, 1960 to February 14, 1961 | Metal (+) |
| Ox | February 15, 1961 to February 4, 1962 | Metal (-) |
| Tiger | February 5, 1962 to January 24, 1963 | Water (+) |
| Rabbit | January 25, 1963 to February 12, 1964 | Water (-) |
| Dragon | February 13, 1964 to February 1, 1965 | Wood (+) |
| Snake | February 2, 1965 to January 20, 1966 | Wood (-) |
| Horse | January 21, 1966 to February 8, 1967 | Fire (+) |
| Sheep | February 9, 1967 to January 29, 1968 | Fire (-) |
| Monkey | January 30, 1968 to February 16, 1969 | Earth (+) |
| Rooster | February 17, 1969 to February 5, 1970 | Earth (-) |
| Dog | February 6, 1970 to January 26, 1971 | Metal (+) |
| Boar | January 27, 1971 to February 15, 1972 | Metal (-) |

| Sign | Lunar Year | Element |
|---|---|---|
| Rat | February 16, 1972 to February 2, 1973 | Water (+) |
| Ox | February 3, 1973 to January 22, 1974 | Water (-) |
| Tiger | January 23, 1974 to February 10, 1975 | Wood (+) |
| Rabbit | February 11, 1975 to January 30, 1976 | Wood (-) |
| Dragon | January 31, 1976 to February 17, 1977 | Fire (+) |
| Snake | February 18, 1977 to February 6, 1978 | Fire (-) |
| Horse | February 7, 1978 to January 27, 1979 | Earth (+) |
| Sheep | January 28, 1979 to February 15, 1980 | Earth (-) |
| Monkey | February 16, 1980 to February 4 1981 | Metal (+) |
| Rooster | February 5, 1981 to January 24, 1982 | Metal (-) |
| Dog | January 25, 1982 to February 12, 1983 | Water (+) |
| Boar | February 13, 1983 to February 1, 1984 | Water (-) |
| Rat | February 2, 1984 to February 19, 1985 | Wood (+) |
| Ox | February 20, 1985 to February 8, 1986 | Wood (-) |
| Tiger | February 9, 1986 to January 28, 1987 | Fire (+) |
| Rabbit | January 29, 1987 to February 16, 1988 | Fire (-) |
| Dragon | February 17, 1988 to February 5, 1989 | Earth (+) |
| Snake | February 6, 1989 to January 26, 1990 | Earth (-) |
| Horse | January 27, 1990 to February 14, 1991 | Metal (+) |
| Sheep | February 15, 1991 to February 3, 1992 | Metal (-) |
| Monkey | February 4, 1992 to January 22, 1993 | Water (+) |
| Rooster | January 23, 1993 to February 9, 1994 | Water (-) |
| Dog | February 10, 1994 to January 30, 1995 | Wood (+) |
| Boar | January 31, 1995 to February 18, 1996 | Wood (-) |

| Sign    | Lunar Year                            | Element   |
| ------- | ------------------------------------- | --------- |
| Rat     | February 19, 1996 to February 6, 1997 | Fire (+)  |
| Ox      | February 7, 1997 to January 27, 1998  | Fire (-)  |
| Tiger   | January 28, 1998 to February 15, 1999 | Earth (+) |
| Rabbit  | February 16, 1999 to February 4, 2000 | Earth (-) |
| Dragon  | February 5, 2000 to January 23, 2001  | Metal (+) |
| Snake   | January 24, 2001 to February 11, 2002 | Metal (-) |
| Horse   | February 12, 2002 to January 31, 2003 | Water (+) |
| Sheep   | February 1, 2003 to January 21, 2004  | Water (-) |
| Monkey  | January 22, 2004 to February 8, 2005  | Wood (+)  |
| Rooster | February 9, 2005 to January 28, 2006  | Wood (-)  |
| Dog     | January 29, 2006 to February 17, 2007 | Fire (+)  |
| Boar    | February 18, 2007 to February 6, 2008 | Fire (-)  |

Taken from the Chinese Ten Thousand Years Lunar Calendar.# The Fascinating World of Chinese Astrology

When Westerners ask, "What's your sign?" they are almost invariably referring to the system of Western astrology that tracks the influence of the planets and stars on human personality. But there is another ancient system of astrology that is not as well known in the West—Chinese astrology. We hear about it, if at all, in newspaper articles referring to Chinese New Year (occurring around the end of January and the beginning of February). We hear that this year perhaps is the Year of the Rabbit, or of the Dragon. But there is a whole, complex horoscope system behind these words, a system that can unlock mysteries of the human personality and current events in an extremely accurate and uncanny way.

Based on the Chinese lunar calendar, Chinese astrology is a highly poetic system of interpreting both human nature and events. It is not dogmatic or rigid in any sense; it points out the basic characteristics and elements that define our personalities and behavior as well as the time and place in which we live, and it can lead us to a greater understanding of ourselves and of humanity in general. It also enables us to realize our weaknesses in a nonjudgmental way and maximize our strengths, while showing us with whom we can best get along and teaching us how to live and work with others.While the Communists in China have tried to stamp out belief in Chinese horoscopes, the system, like Feng Shui and Chi Gong, has been preserved in China itself. It has also been greatly adhered to and advanced by overseas Chinese, in Hong Kong, Taiwan, Singapore, Malaysia, the United States, and other areas of the Chinese Diaspora, where the ancient beliefs have been preserved for their practical wisdom.

Once you become familiar with Chinese astrology, you will be amazed by how accurate it can be when you apply it to yourself and the people you know. In China, it is not only considered an ancient and exacting science but an art form as well. What is presented here is a very basic introduction to Chinese astrology that can be applied not only to people, but also to countries, giving us elemental insight into national attitudes and character. It is no mere historical or political coincidence, for instance, that the United States, born in the Year of the Fire Monkey (1776), and the former Soviet Union, born in the Year of the Fire Snake (1917), were involved in a prolonged "Cold War" that was based on nervous mistrust and covert activities, each spying on the other and trying to catch their opponent unaware; or that the American Monkey should at times experience communication barriers with the People's Republic of China, which was born in the year of the stubborn, authoritarian, traditional, and rigid Earth Ox (1949).## What's Your Sign?

The Chinese horoscope is based on the Chinese lunar calendar, which is made up of five cycles of twelve years each, with a complete cycle taking sixty years. It was introduced by the legendary emperor Huang Ti, known as the Yellow Emperor, between 2700 and 2600 B.C.E. According to legend, Buddha summoned all the animals to come to him before he departed the Earth. Only twelve came to pay their respects, and to honor them in return he named a year after each animal in the order that they appeared, thus establishing the twelve-year cycle: Rat, Ox, Tiger, Rabbit, Dragon, Snake, Horse, Sheep, Monkey, Rooster, Dog, and Boar.

The Vietnamese honor the Rabbit as the Cat, but no Chinese source identifies the fourth animal of the zodiac as the Cat. According to one story, when Buddha summoned the animals, the Cat was to be among them, but the Rat failed to deliver the message and appeared in the Cat's place. Another version has it that the Rat delivered the message, but the Cat was sleeping and didn't want to move. Yet another story states that the Cat was excluded because it had caught the mouse sacred to Maya, Sakyamuni's mother.According to a Chinese saying, one of these animal signs is "the animal hidden in your heart," and determines the distinguishing characteristics of your personality, behavior, and proclivities according to the year and time of day you were born. But there is much more to the system. Each of the twelve animals also corresponds to a direction and a season. Also, each sign is allotted one of the five elements of Chinese alchemy (known as its "fixed" element): Wood, ruled by the planet Jupiter; Fire, ruled by Mars; Earth, ruled by Saturn; Metal, ruled by Venus; and Water, ruled by Mercury. The five elements are further divided into positive and negative poles, known in Chinese as Yin and Yang. Yin is feminine, darkness, death. Yang is masculine, light, life. In Chinese art, medicine, and philosophy, everything is classified under these two polarities, which are represented by the T'ai chi, the circle divided into Yin and Yang, the dark and the light, the symbol of the origins of all life, the "great primal beginning" of all that exists.

The fixed element ascribed to each of the Moon signs governs it as a whole and affects the sign's basic attributes—for example, the Monkey, whose fixed element is Metal. However, besides the fixed element, a second element is ascribed to each year, and it is the combination of these two elements that define the makeup of any given personality (along with the sign ruling the time of birth). The year 1968, for example, was the Year of the Earth Monkey, while the Monkey's fixed element is Metal. Thus each Monkey will have certain distinguishing characteristics based on the element ascribed to the year of its birth.
The following chart lists the twelve signs and their fixed element, season, direction, and polarity or stem (positive or negative). Earth, because it is symbolically composed of all of the other four elements (as well as representing China, "the central kingdom"), is not present in this chart.

| Animal  | Element | Season | Direction | Polarity |
| ------- | ------- | ------ | --------- | -------- |
| Rat     | Water   | Winter | North     | +        |
| Ox      | Water   | Winter | North     | -        |
| Tiger   | Wood    | Spring | East      | +        |
| Rabbit  | Wood    | Spring | East      | -        |
| Dragon  | Wood    | Spring | East      | +        |
| Snake   | Fire    | Summer | South     | -        |
| Horse   | Fire    | Summer | South     | +        |
| Sheep   | Fire    | Summer | South     | -        |
| Monkey  | Metal   | Autumn | West      | +        |
| Rooster | Metal   | Autumn | West      | -        |
| Dog     | Metal   | Autumn | West      | +        |
| Boar    | Water   | Winter | North     | -        |

The twelve animal signs also correspond with a month in the lunar calendar, and therefore can be directly matched with the signs of the Western zodiac (although your Chinese astrological sign comes from the lunar year you were born in, not the month).