# Ten-
## The Rooster

Chinese Name: Ji
Direction: West
Fixed Element: Metal
Stem: Negative
Western Sign: Virgo
Color: Violet
Flower: Chrysanthemum
Fragrance: Myrrh
Tree: Oak
Birthstone: Topaz
Lucky Number: 6
Years of the Rooster: 1957, 1969, 1981, 1993, 2005, 2017

雞

## The Year of the Rooster

Abuoyant and optimistic year, but also precariously balanced, for the colorful Rooster is prone to nonsensical schemes and to flaunting its authority, which can set off an endless number of petty disputes. People tend to be ostentatious and self-conscious about their image and dissension and debates on all fronts come about as a result of the Rooster’s proclivity for argument. There is much loud talk for talk’s sake that seems to go nowhere, and people are prone to take offense at the smallest slight. Simple things are made to appear complicated, and people find themselves expending maximum effort for minimum return. However, there are no real confrontations or damage done. This is a year to be practical and conservative and refrain from speculative ventures, then we will get by without real hardship.## The Rooster Personality

Quixotic and eccentric, the Rooster is possibly the most misunderstood sign of the Chinese zodiac. Outwardly colorful and self-assured, they are at heart traditional and conservative. The Rooster-born, especially the men, will tend to be attractive and often dashingly handsome. Roosters strut about with preening dignity, and even the shyest of this group can be distinguished by their fine feathers and regal bearing. There are two distinct types of Rooster: those who are extremely talkative and those who are solemn, withdrawn, and observant. All Roosters are neat, upright, decisive, organized, alert, and very direct. They love to argue and debate, and can be extremely critical, demonstrating an appalling lack of discretion and little regard for the feelings of others. They can also be completely blind to their own faults, and when criticized by others are unable to take their own medicine.Adept at expressing themselves in both speech and writing, Roosters love to show how knowledgeable they are and recount their adventures and accomplishments. If you join one of them in a debate, be prepared for a long argument that may leave you exhausted. For all their braggadocio, however, Roosters are not nearly as self-assured as they appear. They are constantly in need of affirmation and are therefore highly susceptible to flattery and their own delusions of grandeur. When negative, they can be egoistic, vain, harshly opinionated, and abrasive.

They are very adroit at handling money and are natural experts in accounting, budgeting, and organization. If owed money, Roosters will collect. In fact, Roosters are masters of efficiency who love taking on difficult assignments and demonstrating their expertise.

All Roosters are perfectionists and tireless workers. They have a keen eye for detail, but are also prone to intellectual or theoretical flights of fancy that make their ideas simply inapplicable in any real or human terms. Their dreams are often farfetched and overambitious, and, as a result, they are bound to experience many disappointments in life. They must learn to come down to earth and realize that it is not their cock-crow that makes the sun rise. They are, however, extremely brave and dauntless under duress, sincere in their desire to help others, and generally wellmeaning in their endeavors.A Rooster born at dawn will be the loudest and most talkative of the lot, while those born at night are the exact opposite—serious, self-contained, even withdrawn and uncommunicative.

Roosters love to attract attention. They will dress sharply and have a tendency to overdecorate their homes or offices. They are extremely impressed by medals, awards, and honorary titles of all kinds, and will do their best to collect some of their own. Meticulous and competent, with strong administrative abilities, a natural passion for work, and a driving will to succeed, most Roosters will be successful early in life. Optimistic and dauntless, they will never change their course of action once they have set themselves upon it, no matter what people say or even if they are in reality charging windmills. Like Don Quixote, they insist on dreaming the impossible dream. Ironically enough, some of their grandiose schemes do work out, and many millionaires are born in the Year of the Rooster. Roosters are always able to find money, often in the most common or mundane places. According to a Chinese saying, "Chickens can always find food, even in the hardest ground."

The female Rooster, or Hen, will tend to be more down to earth and far less pretentious and ambitious than her male counterpart. She is also more adaptable and fares far better in social situations. She is extremely efficient and hardworking and has a tremendous amount of energy. Routine appeals to her, and she is highly capable and productive. Dutiful and careful, she could excel in any work requiring concentration and precision, as well as making a patient and thorough teacher, a watchful and protective mother, or an attentive and solicitous wife. Precise and orderly, with an arsenal of remedies for every illness and a detailed list of things to do, she can be helpful and nurturing to the extreme, with a tendency to harp on issues while reminding you what is next on her busy schedule. This is because she cares and is there to help. She takes her responsibilities seriously and enjoys the power and authority that they confer.Roosters will make the best match with the wise and venerable Snake or the sturdy and down-to-earth Ox. They will both love the brightness of the Rooster's disposition and dauntless outlook on life. Dragons will find both the Rooster's directness and grandiose schemes very much to their liking, and will appreciate the Rooster's outgoing energy and ambition. Tiger, Sheep, Monkey, and Boar make good secondary matches.

The Rooster will not find harmony with the sensitive and peace-loving Rabbit, who will be utterly offended by the Rooster's glaring directness, lack of discretion, and harsh criticism. The Rat will find the Rooster arrogant and aloof, and the two will come into direct conflict. The Dog will disapprove of and even resent the Rooster's strutting ways and flights of fancy.

Rooster children will be neat and orderly, intelligent and precise, good students and fast learners. Their parents will find them very demanding, but also dependable and self-disciplined.

Tough and independent, they are not always crying for help. They will be amazingly discerning critics and very straightforward and factual about voicing their opinions. Their minds are pure and they loathe hypocrisy, and will be the first to point out any inconsistencies or flaws in your behavior. They will be astonished and confused if you get angry at them. They were, after all, simply telling you the truth.# The Five Types of Roosters

## Metal Rooster—1921, 1981

These opinionated and headstrong Roosters have an overriding need for recognition and fame. They are also very practical and industrious and could dazzle others with their brilliant powers of deduction. They may be overly fastidious about their personal image and overly concerned with order and hygiene in their environment. They are gifted and high-powered orators, inclined to simply shout down their opponents. Although concerned with material wealth, they find fulfillment in service to humanity and may be passionately committed to instituting social reforms for the good of all.

## Water Rooster—1933, 1993

A more reasonable type of Rooster given to clear thinking and practicality and able to recognize an impossible situation or insurmountable obstacle. They have tremendous energy and initiative and are proficient writers and speakers, able to inspire action in others to expedite their progress. They are intellectuals with a love of culture, and they will also have very strong scientific leanings. When negative they can be overly obsessed with perfection and procedures, making them bureaucratic and mired in trivialities.## Wood Rooster—1945, 2005

A much less stubborn and opinionated Rooster who is more considerate of others and has a wider outlook on life. Nonetheless, being Roosters, they still have a tendency to complicate matters, be overly regimental, and harsh-tongued when crossed. Wood makes them progress-oriented, and with the Rooster's virtues of integrity and honesty they will be excellent performers in whatever they do. Open-minded and fair, they are capable of giving unselfishly of themselves for the welfare of others.

## Fire Rooster—1957, 2017

Extremely vigorous and highly motivated, these are Roosters of strong principles who are utterly singleminded in their pursuit of success. Fanatical about their beliefs, they can be inflexible and highly temperamental and overdramatic, but they are totally ethical and professional in their dealings with others. They have very strong managerial and leadership abilities and could project quite a dynamic and authoritative public image.## Earth Rooster—1909, 1969, 2029

These efficient, analytical, accurate, and probing Roosters dig deep for the truth, are judicious about their work, and are extremely systematic. They can cut through the brambles and get to the plain and simple facts. They are undaunted by responsibility and can be dogmatic and missionary in their zeal. Hard taskmasters and critics, they are tireless workers who will reap the rewards of their efforts if their goals are practical.

## Influence of time of Birth

**The Hours of the Rat—11 P.M. to 1 A.M.**

A Rooster imbued with the Rat's charm, curiosity, and conviviality. Still argumentative but with decisively more pleasant manners.

**The Hours of the Ox—1 A.M. to 3 A.M.**

A more down-to-earth Rooster but harsh and heavy-handed when put in a position of authority.

**The Hours of the Tiger—3 A.M. to 5 A.M.**

An impulsive, supremely overconfident, and at times incoherent Rooster who can be highly excitable and changeable.**The Hours of the Rabbit—5 A.M. to 7 A.M.**

Quiet and efficient, with an element of the Rabbit's cunning, and less likely to be harsh or troublesome.

**The Hours of the Dragon—7 A.M. to 9 A.M.**

A fastidious, assertive, and fearless Rooster who will plow through the opposition and refuse to relinquish power.

**The Hours of the Snake—9 A.M. to 11 A.M.**

A considerably more detached and secretive Rooster who may even have a certain amount of discretion when it comes to voicing personal opinions.

**The Hours of the Horse—11 A.M. to 1 P.M.**

A flamboyant and colorful but more practical and agile Rooster with sharp reflexes and the ability to implement plans that can actually reap high dividends.

**The Hours of the Sheep—1 P.M. to 3 P.M.**

A less assertive and egotistical Rooster who may have a touch of the Sheep's coy bashfulness and more refined and considerate ways.

**The Hours of the Monkey—3 P.M. to 5 P.M.**

A crafty, alert, and congenial Rooster who is purposeful and adept at making deals and does not take him- or herself so seriously.**The Hours of the Rooster—5 P.M. to 7 P.M.**

A "double" or "pure" Rooster whose fastidiousness, obsessive efficiency, and harsh criticism may be too much for most people to tolerate.

**The Hours of the Dog—7 P.M. to 9 P.M.**

A fair-minded, idealistic, and less opinionated but calculating Rooster who could be prone to bouts of erratic or cantankerous behavior. Both the Rooster and the Dog are known for their sharp tongues.

**The Hours of the Boar—9 P.M. to 11 P.M.**

A more sensual, generous, and unselfish Rooster who is incapable of dishonesty and who will insist on helping you whether you want it or not.

# The Rooster's Prospects in Coming Years

## The Year of the Dragon—2000

A prosperous year marked by gains and success. A birth or a marriage within the family are highly probable.## The Year of the Snake—2001

No large monetary gains are foreseen this year, but Roosters are able to maintain their position and diminish any losses or expenses. There is the possibility of being the victim of freak accidents or malicious gossip.

## The Year of the Horse—2002

The Rooster encounters many obstacles this year and will be forced to make unwilling compromises. Although the work is beset by quarrels and disputes, there is good news regarding family.

## The Year of the Sheep—2003

The Rooster receives good news and advancement in career and life is quieter and more settled.

## The Year of the Monkey—2004

Financial problems, business failure, or personal suffering of some kind are possible this year. A year for Roosters to be cautious and investigate everything thoroughly, as they are prone to make errors in judgment.

## The Year of the Rooster—2005

Problems are solved with ease and the Rooster makes a magnificent comeback after the difficult Year of the Monkey.## The Year of the Dog—2006

Although gains will only moderate this year losses will be minimal. Plans go smoothly but there may be some unhappiness or frustration in the Rooster's personal life.

## The Year of the Boar—2007

Roosters are plagued by unexpected difficulties, hindrances, and setbacks and they must not be misled by so-called good news or the advice of friends but be wary and prudent.

## The Year of the Rat—2008

A difficult year in which money is hard to come by and the Rooster finds little to no assistance from friends or associates. Troubles at home and minor health problems are indicated as the Rooster must go it alone to solve his problems.

## The Year of the Ox—2009

A good year in which the Rooster regains lost power and receives assistance from friends. Loss of blood is indicated this year, and the Rooster must be careful to avoid injury from sharp objects.

## The Year of the Tiger—2010

A fruitful year where business and money are concerned. Things go according to plan although the Rooster may face some worries or troubles at home.## The Year of the Rabbit—2011

Roosters could lose money this year as they are prone to miscalculations. This is not a time to try and act independently but seek the support and assistance of others.

## Some Famous Roosters

Albert R. Broccoli, Grover Cleveland, Alexander Dubcek, Paul Gallico, Andrei Gromyko, Alex Haley, Katherine Hepburn, Elton John, Elia Kazan, Deborah Kerr, Jayne Mansfield, Yves Montand, Pope Paul IV, Jane Russell, Jessica Tandy, Peter Ustinov, Rachel Ward.