# Eleven—
# The Dog

!dog image

Chinese Name: Gou
Direction: West-Northwest
Fixed Element: Metal
Stem: Positive
Western Sign: Libra
Color: Turquoise
Flower: Calendula
Fragrance: Balsam
Tree: Cherry
Birthstone: Ruby
Lucky Number: 9
Years of the Dog: 1958, 1970, 1982, 1994, 2006, 2018

# 狗

# The Year of the Dog

This is, in a sense, the year of the underdog. Liberty and equality are staunchly advocated by the Dog, whose sense of justice and fair play lead to major confrontations and dissent, with the weaker parties emerging victorious. Controversial issues are addressed, and changes instigated. People are less materialistic and more idealistic in their outlook and prone to performing charitable acts and championing worthy causes. The Dog's resoluteness brings about clashes, upheavals, and rebellions against tyranny and oppression, but the Dog's good sense and largesse also ensures that peace and stability are reinstated once the necessary reforms have been made.

This can be a worrying year, but with the Dog on guard there is actually no real cause for alarm. The Chinese, though, fear the Year of the Metal Dog, which is said to bring war and calamity.## The Dog Personality

People born in the Year of the Dog are warm, idealistic, honest, straightforward, and intelligent, with a deep sense of loyalty and a passion for justice and fair play. Often they protect the interests of others more avidly than their own. They are amiable, animated, and unpretentious, and exude a strong sexual appeal. Egalitarian and democratic, they will listen to reason and know how to get along well with others and meet them halfway. They have a noble and altruistic character and a strong sense of duty. People trust them and hold them in high esteem, making them good although often reluctant leaders.Often Dogs will be born into a good family. If they aren't, they will manage to elevate their status in life without denying their families or concealing their origins.

Dogs can be prone to bouts of erratic and cantankerous behavior in which little things seem to irritate them tremendously. Inclined to pessimism and a certain degree of paranoia, they expect trouble where there is none and can worry unnecessarily. However, their predictions do occasionally come true, as Dogs have a natural guardian instinct for immediately spotting a friend or foe, the good and the bad. They also have a tendency to categorize people according to these distinctions. In the Dog's mind there are no gray areas. You are either with them or against them, an ally or an enemy. Their decision to trust or not trust you will be a final one. If you are among the chosen few, then you are indeed fortunate, as the Dog is an immensely loyal friend and ally who will not hesitate to come to your aid or defense. And as much as they are loyal, they expect the same in return. Besides injustice, disloyalty and cowardice are the things they despise the most.

Although they can at times be pugnacious and quarrelsome, Dogs rarely if ever resort to underhanded means to win a fight. They fight their battles in the open, meeting the enemy face to face. But generally speaking, Dogs only attack when challenged on their home ground. While genuinely warm and generous with their friends, they can be critical of and cold to the people they dislike. Practical and very realistic, they are fearless and outspoken and can have a razor sharp tongue. When negative they can be belligerent, argumentative, rigidly opinionated, and extremely cynical and caustic. If hurt or taken advantage of, they can retaliate fiercely and without mercy.The female Dog often has a warm and lasting beauty. Brigitte Bardot and Sophia Loren are examples of her glamorous and enduring appeal. She forms her friendships slowly, getting to know you a little a time, sounding you out while she sees if you meet with her approval and possess the qualities she deems appropriate to form a loyal and lasting friendship. She can be abrupt and impatient when crossed, but on the whole she is caring and attentive to the needs of others. Her husband and children will find her a friend and ally who is cooperative and unbiased and who is neither possessive nor interfering. She will enjoy outdoor activities such as swimming, hiking, and tennis, and will love to dance and attend parties.

Dogs will be most compatible with the Tiger and the Horse. Rat, Rabbit, Snake, Monkey, Boar, or another Dog make good secondary matches. The Rooster and the Dog will have difficulty understanding one another, and the Dog will not be able to tolerate the indecisive and self-indulgent Sheep, who will find the Dog callous and insensitive. Dragon and Dog will come into direct conflict, as the Dog will be highly critical of the Dragon and the Dragon will be enraged by the Dog's derision of his grand schemes.

Dog children have cheerful and harmonious dispositions. Natural-born realists, they expect little of others and accept their parents for who and what they are. They have a keen sense of humor and an amazing clarity of perception and are forthright and candid. Confident and loyal, they know how to stand up for themselves and are very protective of other family members. They are reasonable and cooperative when asked to help around the house, and although they insist on a certain degree of independence, they will stay close to home. When offended or hurt they can become belligerent and rebellious, but their anger subsides quickly and they will regain their reason and inner equilibrium.# The Five Types of Dogs

## Metal Dog-1910, 1970, 2030

Metal is the Dog's fixed element, so this is a double Metal sign. The Tibetans call this particular combination the "Iron Dog" and regard it apprehensively. It will either be very good or very bad.

These Dogs will be unswerving in their convictions and can devote their lives selflessly to whatever cause they choose to take on. Stern and principled, their loyalty will be unquestionable and they will have strong political views. They take matters very seriously, especially when they concern the affairs of their own hearts or their loyalty to their country. Never indecisive, they will choose a side and stick with it and can resort to extreme measures in the name of their convictions and loyalties. They can be ruthless when attacked and hell-bent on the annihilation of their enemies.## Water Dog-1922, 1982, 2042

A highly intuitive type of Dog who will be difficult to deceive and who has a more reflective and sympathetic nature. They will have a tendency to be lenient with themselves as well as others and are prone to indulging in wild sprees and other acts of self-gratification. They are nonetheless able to contain their emotions beneath a calm and very charming demeanor. Good listeners and sound counselors, they are fluid in their expression and fated to be surrounded by many friends and admirers. The female Water Dog is often a striking and alluring beauty. Ava Gardner is an outstanding example of the Water Dog in all her glory.

## Wood Dog-1934, 1994

These gregarious, charming, and warmhearted Dogs will form close and lasting relationships in spite of their fundamental wariness of others. Although attracted to money and success, they will not be overtly materialistic and will seek intellectual stimulation and work hard to improve and develop themselves.

They have refined tastes and are socially graceful with a strong aptitude for dealing with large numbers of people from various walks of life. Energetic, cooperative, and very popular, the Water Dog is happiest when involved in a partnership or some powerful affiliation.## Fire Dog—1946, 2006

A dramatic and charismatic Dog with great magnetic charm who will be very attractive to the opposite sex. Independent and courageous, they are creative and pure in their expression and not at all afraid of getting involved with others. They can be defiant and openly rebellious when forced to act against their will, and are constantly seeking new adventures and experiences. They are very fierce when attacked and will not make threats that they cannot carry out. With their driving willpower, honesty, faith, and idealism they are able to overcome obstacles and succeed in great and daring endeavors.

## Earth Dog—1958, 2018

These practical, secretive, quiet, and less sentimental Dogs value their individuality and self-respect. They move slowly but purposefully and seldom deviate from their fixed scale of values. Good fighters and survivors, they are realists who are never completely subdued by defeat or blinded by victory. They are prone to be overachievers who demand extreme loyalty and dedication from others.# Influence of Time of Birth

**The Hours of the Rat—11 P.M. to 1 A.M.**

A loving but not so generous Dog who is careful with money.

**The Hours of the Ox—1 A.M. to 3 A.M.**

A blunt and plain-spoken Dog, conservative and austere, whose honesty and truthfulness are unquestionable.

**The Hours of the Tiger—3 A.M. to 5 A.M.**

Energetic, passionate, and courageous, this Dog could be even more impatient and critical than most.

**The Hours of the Rabbit—5 A.M. to 7 A.M.**

A peace-loving Dog who will also carefully consider the pros and cons before choosing sides.

**The Hours of the Dragon—7 A.M. to 9 A.M.**

A dogmatic idealist with high moral standards and aspirations who could achieve much.

**The Hours of the Snake—9 A.M. to 11 A.M.**

These more silent and brooding Dogs are not adverse to compromising their sense of justice and fair play to attain their goals.**The Hours of the Horse—11 A.M. to 1 P.M.**

An alert, nimble Dog with lightning responses and a sunny and friendly disposition who will blithely move on if you are too imposing or demanding.

**The Hours of the Sheep—1 P.M. to 3 P.M.**

A kind-hearted and sympathetic and less critical Dog, artistic and pessimistic, with a keen sense of fair play.

**The Hours of the Monkey—3 P.M. to 5 P.M.**

Character and ingenuity come together to form a sparkling and amusing Dog with a lively wit and a pliable conscience.

**The Hours of the Rooster—5 P.M. to 7 P.M.**

These Dogs are very competent and analytical but prone to preaching, and preaching they do ad infinitum without ever seeming to get to the point.

**The Hours of the Dog—7 P.M. to 9 P.M.**

Open-hearted Dogs with honest natures, forever alert and defending their territory while looking for wrongs to right, souls to save, and just causes to fight for.

**The Hours of the Boar—9 P.M. to 11 P.M.**

These sensuous and emotionally driven Dogs will take the critical moral high ground with others while refusing to deny their own indulgences.# The Dog's Prospects in Coming Years

## The Year of the Dragon—2000

A difficult year, in which Dogs will be constantly at war with the competition, and people tend to take advantage of their weak position. They could also be susceptible to infections. Good news comes with the winter.

## The Year of the Snake—2001

A very good year. Although they may have to work hard, Dogs will receive due recognition and rewards for their efforts and will benefit greatly from the advice and support of friends and associates.

## The Year of the Horse—2002

An expansive and progressive year marked by promotions and financial gains. However, there is the possibility of unhappy news at home or the loss of some personal belonging.

## The Year of the Sheep—2003

Dogs are hounded by anxiety and worries this year, but they can prevent losses and resolve conflicts if they are patient and careful with their words.

## The Year of the Monkey—2004

A hectic and busy year, but not nearly as fruitful as it first appears. Extra expenditures, travel, or a change of residence are indicated. There will be good news at home, and the Dog will attract new and important people.## The Year of the Rooster—2005
Health and romantic problems beset the Dog this year, and there could also be trouble with superiors or the government. Friends are not particularly sympathetic or helpful, and Dogs find it hard to collect money owed to them.

## The Year of the Dog—2006
A quiet and protected year in which the Dog will see some advances in career but with no significantly large profits or returns.

## The Year of the Boar—2007
Some gains through speculations or investments are possible, but Dogs will be faced with delays and additional expenses that diminish their overall profits. Dogs could cultivate new and influential friends and make new contacts.

## The Year of the Rat—2008
A good year for the Dog, marked by business successes or profits from investments. The Dog could experience some domestic problems—possibly with children—and should refrain from lending money.## The Year of the Ox-2009

A year of uncertainties and misunderstandings, in which Dogs must avoid confrontations and making hasty decisions. They may have to make some difficult concessions or be faced with additional expenses.

## The Year of the Tiger-2010

A moderately happy year, with no serious disputes. Dogs will be faced with some romantic quarrels or troubles but they will ultimately be inconsequential. Net results will be mixed, and family and friends will make excessive demands on their time and energy.

## The Year of the Rabbit-2011

A good year for Dogs to go into business or launch a new venture. Problems will be solved with minimum effort and few complications.

## Some Famous Dogs

James Agee, Brigitte Bardot, Charles Bronson, Carol Burnett, Pierre Cardin, Cher, Chou En-lai, Bill Clinton, Sir Winston Churchill, Ava Gardner, Herbert Hoover, Sophia Loren, Norman Mailer, Golda Meir, Liza Minnelli, Ralph Nader, David Niven, Elvis Presley, Itzhak Rabin, Oliver Stone, François-Marie de Voltaire.