# Twelve
## The Boar

Chinese Name: Zhu
Direction: North-Northwest
Fixed Element: Water
Stem: Negative
Western Sign: Scorpio
Color: Purple
Flower: Calla lily
Fragrance: Ambergris
Tree: Acacia
Birthstone: Moonstone
Lucky Number: 5
Years of the Boar: 1947, 1959, 1971, 1983, 1995, 2007, 2019

## The Year of the Boar

A year of plenty and good will for all, imbued with a feeling of abundance, contentment and security. People make new friends and entertain a lot, and are involved in charitable and social functions. Business and industry thrive, but, given the Boar's indecisive nature, people hesitate to take full advantage of the time. The tolerant, sensual, and indulgent Boar fills everyone with a sense of wellbeing, extravagance, generosity, and chivalry. Life is for living, and living well. People may also find themselves regretting impulsive acts of generosity. A year to be wary of excess and exercise prudence in money matters.## The Boar Personality

Boars are known for their honesty, simplicity, and perseverance. Like the Rabbit and the Sheep, they seek peace and harmony in their existence. Physically strong, courageous, sensual, and gallant, they can apply themselves wholeheartedly to their work and be relied upon to bring whatever they start to completion. With their bountiful supply of energy, they will work hard and play hard. Considerate, generous, and loyal, they make lasting friendships and enjoy social gatherings of all kinds. They love to throw parties and entertain, and wallow gloriously in the company of friends and loved ones. When negative, their wanton pursuit of pleasure can lead to debauchery and even depravity. Unable to contain their enormous appetites, they can be easily corrupted and debased by those who know how to exploit their weaknesses.

The genial Boar is completely trustworthy. They rarely possesses ulterior motives and at times can be too innocent and naive, making it easy for others to take advantage of them. However, fortune tends to favor them because of their honest, kind, and giving natures. Although quick-tempered, they hate conflict of any kind and will do their best to placate or accommodate their opponents. As friends, they will be there to help when you need it the most, and whatever you do for them they will be sure to pay you back doubly. Although materialistic by nature, they love to share what they have, taking genuine pleasure in seeing others enjoy the bounty of their labors. They are virtually defenseless against deception, and as a result are often easily parted from their money.They are amorous and sensuous creatures driven by strong passions, and have extraordinary vigor and stamina. When they love, they love with their whole heart and do not know how to conceal their emotions. As a result, they are often hurt, and the wound can last for years. On the other hand, they can be incredibly thick-skinned—the Boar has a tough hide—and can dismiss insults, accusations, and other unpleasantness with a laugh or casual shrug and go about their business. However, when pushed too far they can respond with savage power and be formidable opponents.

Because of their inability to say "No" to themselves as well as to their friends and family, Boars are likely to experience bankruptcy or its near equivalent at least once in their lives, but they have remarkable powers of recuperation and always manage to make brilliant comebacks. They never seem to take calamity too seriously. The secret of their success lies in their dauntless faith, courage, generosity, and resilience.The female Boar is very personable and modest. Although she loves with complete abandonment, she will tend to do it quietly and even secretly, worshiping someone from a distance with passionate devotion without the person knowing it. She will devote all of her energy to the ones she loves and demand little in return. She is extremely trusting and remarkably pure in her expression. Like all Boars, she will be either incredibly clean and neat or very untidy.

Boars make the best unions with the Rabbit or the Sheep. Rat, Ox, Tiger, Dragon, Horse, Rooster and Dog all make good secondary matches. Two Boars together are likely to find each other too similar and boring. Boars should avoid both the Snake and the Monkey. The honest and simple Boar will be no match for their cunning and guile. With the Snake, especially, the Boar will experience deep animosity and lasting conflict.

Boar children are dependable, self-reliant, and determined. Physically strong, they are able to cope with pain and suffering without complaining, and they are courageous in the face adversity. They are not easily discouraged or depressed. They have passionate natures, and it is virtually impossible for them to be detached or casual in their affections. If they love their parents, they will worship the ground they walk on; if not, they will reproach themselves for their lack of devotion. They will require little attention, although they must feel assured that the support they need is there when required. They can take reproach in stride, and setbacks only instill them with renewed vigor. Boar children put their complete strength and dedication into any of their undertakings. They are utterly blind to any faults in those they love and are intensely loyal to their friends.# The Five Types of Boars

## Metal Boar—1911, 1971, 2051

These Boars are proud and passionate, with excessive appetites and overwhelming sentiments. Intense and domineering, they are very extroverted and sociable. Openly demonstrative with their affections, direct and trusting, they can overestimate their friends and underestimate their foes. Forceful and highly ambitious, with immense powers of endurance, they will not concede defeat without a fight and can be violent in their anger and be dangerous enemies.

## Water Boar—1923, 1983

Diplomatic, cordial, peaceful, and perceptive, Water Boars understand people's secret desires and are adroit at bargaining with their opponents. They always look for the best in people, often refusing to recognize or believe in evil intentions, and have a deep faith in their own beliefs and in their loved ones.

They are highly gregarious and given to strong and passionate outpourings of love and affection. When negative, they can be obsessed with sex and prone to excessive drink and other sensual indulges at the expense of others.## Wood Boar—1935, 1995

Although expert manipulators of people for personal gain, Wood Boars are nonetheless extremely kind-hearted and love to help others and get along with everyone. Great promoters and persuasive talkers, they are adept at getting financing for their business deals and will take on ambitious ventures. They love to entertain and bring people together, but can be indiscriminate about whom they associate with.

## Fire Boar—1947, 2007

Fire Boars are courageous and driven by powerful emotions. They are intrepid and optimistic, believing entirely in their own abilities, have no fear of the unknown, and will try their hand at almost anything and succeed against overwhelming odds. They are extremely energetic and very sensual. They are motivated by love and will accumulate wealth in order to provide for those they care for. They are extremely generous, even to strangers. These Boars will prefer manufacturing or labor-oriented enterprises such as building and construction, as they enjoy employing large numbers of people. They are always able gather people around them to participate in both their virtues and their vices. When negative, they can be stubborn, willful, and bullying, but generally they have great largesse and are decidedly unprejudiced.## Earth Boar—1959, 2019

Earth Boars possess great willpower and patience and will steadfastly work toward a goal until they attain it, with an extraordinary capacity to endure stress and shoulder burdens. Peaceful, happy, and very sensible, they know how to benefit themselves without depleting others. They have a great love of food and drink and do not worry much about their problems. Their ambitions are always reasonable, and they are able to find material success and security. Earth Boars are kind and thoughtful friends and reliable associates who seek tranquillity and domestic harmony in their lives.

## Influence of Time of Birth

**The Hours of the Rat—11 P.M. to 1 A.M.**

These are highly sociable Boars who are astute with money as well as in their assessments, they know how to cultivate beneficial relationships.

**The Hours of the Ox—1 A.M. to 3 A.M.**

Strong-tempered and opinionated Boars with precise habits; they are more in control of their sensual appetites.**The Hours of the Tiger—3 A.M. to 5 A.M.**

Big-hearted, daring, athletic, and impulsive Boars who are guided by their emotions and are very open to the influence of others.

**The Hours of the Rabbit—5 A.M. to 7 A.M.**

These Boars are not nearly as obliging as they pretend to be and will not shoulder any more burdens than they have to, but are nonetheless easygoing and make great party animals.

**The Hours of the Dragon—7 A.M. to 9 A.M.**

Strong and dutiful, these Boars are devoted wholeheartedly to their loved ones. Both signs are direct, strong but innocent.

**The Hours of the Snake—9 A.M. to 11 A.M.**

These are stealthy and more secretive Boars with fewer scruples about taking what they want.

**The Hours of the Horse—11 A.M. to 1 P.M.**

These Boars are more selfish and inconsiderate, which actually serves to temper the Boar's excessive generosity and naiveté, making them able to more readily profit from their dealings with others.

**The Hours of the Sheep—1 P.M. to 3 P.M.**

Sentimental and compassionate, these Boars are easily duped. They will work hard for others and are overly generous.**The Hours of the Monkey—3 P.M. to 5 P.M.**

These Boars are not easily tricked, as the Monkey protects them from the Boar's innocence and naiveté. Their friendly exterior conceals a calculating greed.

**The Hours of the Rooster—5 P.M. to 7 P.M.**

Well-intentioned but impractical, these Boars are quixotic and will take on tremendous tasks that reap little to no reward.

**The Hours of the Dog—7 P.M. to 9 P.M.**

These Boars have sound judgment and are less sensual and indulgent. They are intolerant of deceit and will be relentless in their revenge on those who lie to them.

**The Hours of the Boar—9 P.M. to 11 P.M.**

Honest, straightforward, loyal, sturdy, energetic, generous, and sensuous Boars.

# The Boar's Prospects for Coming Years

## The Year of the Dragon—2000

Boars will gain recognition, the respect of their associates, and the support of powerful people, but may face some health problems or the loss of some personal belongings.## The Year of the Snake—2001
A hectic, busy, and unsettling year, with moderate success. There will problems with the opposite sex and some sad news at home.

## The Year of the Horse—2002
A good and prosperous year for family and career. Boars should avoid speculation or entrusting funds to others. Benefits formerly withheld become available.

## The Year of the Sheep—2003
Finances are at a standstill, but there will gains this year in the form of knowledge, training, or career development.

## The Year of the Monkey—2004
Although Boars may suffer financial losses and domestic and personal problems, they will be able to borrow money and find people who can help solve their problems.

## The Year of the Rooster—2005
Boars must be patient with difficult and complex negotiations. Progress is hampered or interrupted, and obstacles require time and effort to overcome. Home life, however, remains calm and supportive.## The Year of the Dog—2006

Aspirations will be frustrated, as difficulties arise out of past errors or neglect. Boars must be careful about whom they rely on and be open to constructive criticism.

## The Year of the Boar—2007

Life will be stable and there will be some progress and gain, although Boars could experience conflict at work or at home. There may be some chronic health problems. Winter brings new friends and opportunities.

## The Year of the Rat—2008

A year of uncertainties, in which Boars are beset by worries that hinder their progress. Work and home life are unsettled, and there may be losses where Boars had expected gains.

## The Year of the Ox—2009

A good year for business, in which prospects are readily apparent, gambles could pay off handsomely. There could be some romantic or family troubles or complications.

## The Year of the Tiger—2010

Boars will encounter difficulties this year that they may have to face alone; they may be burdened by unexpected expenses such as fines, legal fees, or taxes.## The Year of the Rabbit-2011

There are some financial gains this year, and home life is peaceful and happy, with a considerable amount of socializing and entertaining.

## Some Famous Boars
Woody Allen, Julie Andrews, Lucille Ball, Humphrey Bogart, Maria Callas, Al Capone, Chiang Kai-shek, Ernest Hemingway, Charlton Heston, Alfred Hitchcock, Hubert Humphrey, King Hussein, Andrew Jackson, Henry Kissinger, Lee Kuan Yew, Field Marshal Montgomery, Merle Oberon, Prince Rainier of Monaco, Claude Rains, Sir Terence Rattigan, Ronald Reagan, Françoise Sagan, Roy Schneider, Robert Taylor.