# Two-
# The Ox

Chinese Name: Niú
Direction: North-Northeast
Fixed Element: Water
Stem: Negative
Western Sign: Capricorn
Color: Dark blue
Flower: Chrysanthemum
Fragrance: Shalimar
Tree: Pear
Flavor: Sweet
Birthstone: Lapis lazuli
Lucky number: 1
Years of the Ox: 1949, 1961, 1973, 1985, 1997, 2009, 2021

牛

# The Year of the Ox

A year in which success can only be achieved through diligence and conscientious effort, while politics and diplomacy are treated with indifference at best. The conservative Ox favors discipline and traditional ways. Conflicts can arise as a result of miscommunication and inflexibility or stubbornness. Gains will be made this year, but only through conventional methods and not without hard work.# The Ox Personality

A person born in the Year of the Ox will be calm, reliable, and patient. While they are often stubborn and biased, they are also resolute and fearless. They are traditional and methodical and adhere to fixed patterns of thought and behavior. This makes them appear predictable and unimaginative. The sturdy and dutiful Oxen do not rely on luck or guile. Their accomplishments are all the result of sheer tenacity and plodding and systematic determination. They possess a quiet dignity and a strong moral sense, and are generally respected and liked for their honesty, rectitude, and lack of pretension. They are super-self-reliant, loath to ask others for help, and never resort to unfair means to attain their goals. They build things to last, including their families, and will work diligently to ensure the continued survival and prosperity of their offspring. As providers and heads of their households, their word is law, and they will not tolerate insolence or rebellion, although they are extremely proud of their families and care for them a great deal. The government of the People's Republic of China was established in 1949, the Year of the Earth Ox. Since then China has progressed slowly and steadily through hard work and dedication to her people, while at the same time dissidence, questioning, and protest have been met with authoritarian intolerance. Mao Tse-tung, a Snake, achieved victory in the Year of the Ox; Ox and Snake are found together in the Triangle of Affinity.An Ox born during the day will be more aggressive and active than one born at night, while a winter Ox will have a harder life than one born in the summer.

Oxen have strong constitutions and are rarely sick. They are proud and uncompromising and disdainful of weakness. When negative, they can lack compassion and be unapproachable, rigid, and narrow-minded.

Oxen can be naive and awkward in matters of the heart. Their practical, down-to-earth nature has little sense of the refinements of romance and seduction, and they cannot fully understand the snares and enticements of love. Because of their traditional ways, both Ox men and women will insist on long courtships. Both are slow to open up and reveal their true feelings, but once committed they are steadfast and responsible.

Ox women, like all Oxen, are practical, no-nonsense types who run their households according to a strict regimen and see to it that all tasks are performed thoroughly and dutifully. They may not be particularly demonstrative with their affections, but they make ideal partners: honest, reliable, and hard-working.Oxen have long and detailed memories and can nurture grievances for many years. A wounded Ox can become sullen and morose, and one who has suffered disappointment in love may become a brooding and solitary soul and withdraw into his or her work as a defense against ever being hurt again. On the other hand, they will insist on always settling their accounts. No debts will be left unpaid or favors unrewarded. There will be no great verbal displays—words mean little to the practical Ox; it's action that counts.

Because of their legendary patience, Oxen are slow to anger, but when they do get angry, watch out. They are charging bulls—or buffalo—impossible to reckon with or withstand. Do not try to be a matador, you'll only get gored. Simply keep out of their way until they have calmed down.

The resplendent and flamboyant Rooster makes the best mate for the Ox, filling their lives with color and light. They both have a high regard for authority, efficiency, and duty. The serene and prudent Snake and the indefatigable and sympathetic Rat make equally good partners, and love the Ox for his or her sturdiness and reliability. Another Ox, Rabbit, Dragon, Horse, Monkey, and Boar will also be compatible. An Ox will experience bitter clashes with the rebellious Tiger and the fickle Sheep, and the Dog may find them dull, slow, humorless, and set in their ways.

Ox children are characteristically stoic and tough. They are inclined to talk late, use physical means to settle their arguments, and be adamant about the preservation of their privacy. These children welcome discipline and fixed routines, which gives them a much-needed sense of security. Having a taciturn and serious nature, they do not readily show their feelings, nor are they inclined to joke around. They are extremely naive about the ways of the world and in this regard require the advice and protection of their elders. They have remarkable patience and perseverance, and are reliable and responsible.# The Five Types of Oxen

## Metal Ox—1901, 1961, 2021

These Oxen are of few words, but they are capable of being clear and eloquent in expressing what they want. They are very intense, resolute, and determined, and will have strong clashes of will with anyone who disagrees with their views or stands in their way. Obsessed with achieving their goals, they can be aggressive and arrogant. Failure of any sort is anathema to them. People of extraordinary stamina, they can work day and night, and require little sleep. They are not very affectionate by nature and could have scholastic or artistic inclinations. They are very responsible and can be relied upon to keep their word. When negative, they can be extremely stubborn, narrow-minded, and vengeful.## Water Ox—1913, 1973

These are a more flexible and open-minded type of Oxen, although still conservative in their outlook. Shrewd and astute and driven by relentless ambition, they can concentrate on more than one goal at a time and work well with others. Water Oxen will calmly and patiently bide their time, waiting out the opposition as they quietly and methodically work at wearing them down.

## Wood Ox—1925, 1985

These are less rigid and more considerate, fair-minded, and impartial Oxen who also possess many of the social graces lacking in the Oxen of other elements. Although still prone to conservatism, they are open to and can even embrace new and progressive ideas. They can react with more alacrity than others of this sign, and this, combined with their steadfastness and openness, can make them capable of amassing great wealth and achieving prominence. They understand the importance of coexistence and teamwork.

## Fire Ox—1937, 1997

These combustible bovines are drawn to power and prestige. Fire enhances both the Ox's temper and desire for control. Blinded by their innate sense of superiority, they have a tendency to overestimate their own abilities and eliminate anyone or anything they deem as inappropriate or useless without properly assessing their true worth. They can be harsh, outspoken, and inconsiderate, although they are at heart fair and honest. Forceful and proud, they are capable of waging total war against their foes.## Earth Ox—1949, 2009

The slowest but the surest of all the Oxen. Practical and hard-working, they seek security and stability and will endure hardship and suffering without complaint to achieve their aims. Stolid and persevering, they will stand firm and refuse to relinquish any ground gained.

## Influence of Time of Birth

**The Hours of the Rat—11 P.M. to 1 A.M.**

These Oxen are imbued with the Rat's sentiment and charm. They will be more talkative than most and have the Rat's ability to hoard money.

**The Hours of the Ox—1 A.M. to 3 A.M.**

A "pure" Ox—stolid, dedicated, self-controlled, slow, conservative, obstinate, regimented, and disciplined. Distinctly lacking imagination and a sense of humor.**The Hours of the Tiger—3 A.M. to 5 A.M.**

The Tiger gives this Ox a more lively and engaging personality. The combination of these two fierce animal signs can also make for a volatile temper.

**The Hours of the Rabbit—5 A.M. to 7 A.M.**

This is a discreet and genteel type of Ox, with more refined tastes and lacking the Ox's usual proclivity for strenuous work.

**The Hours of the Dragon—7 A.M. to 9 A.M.**

A combination of immense strength, power, and ambition that can be opinionated and implacable.

**The Hours of the Snake—9 A.M. to 11 A.M.**

Both signs are extremely secretive, and the Snake's influence could imbue this individual with a cunning streak not usually associated with the straightforward Ox.

**The Hours of the Horse—11 A.M. to 1 P.M.**

A lively and happy Ox—like Ferdinand the Bull, who loved to sniff the flowers. The capricious and restless Horse will make this Ox less steadfast and reliable.

**The Hours of the Sheep—1 P.M. to 3 P.M.**

A tender Ox, possibly with an artistic side and lenient attitudes. He or she is business-minded, receptive to others, and knows how to use their talents to make money.**The Hours of the Monkey—3 P.M. to 5 P.M.**

An astute, sly and jovial Ox, who may even have a wry sense of humor and a dazzling smile. No problem will be too great for this Ox to overcome, and neither will he or she take their problems too seriously.

**The Hours of the Rooster—5 P.M. to 7 P.M.**

Dutiful but colorful, these Oxen are prone to argument and the use of rhetoric to achieve their goals.

**The Hours of the Dog—7 P.M. to 9 P.M.**

A stern moralist, possibly with a puritanical streak that is at least alleviated by the Dog's desire for fair-mindedness.

**The Hours of the Boar—9 P.M. to 11 P.M.**

Although conservative and demanding, this is a more affectionate Ox whose hard-working tendencies will be matched by the Boar's sensual nature and love of good food.

# The Ox's Prospects in Coming Years

## The Year of the Dragon—2000

A year marked by many changes and unexpected troubles. Oxen will have to work hard but will be able to further themselves through the help of influential people.## The Year of the Snake-2001

A very good year, in which Oxen are bound to make money and enjoy themselves, although they must be alert to the possibility of betrayal and avoid any misunderstandings with their associates.

## The Year of the Horse-2002

A difficult year, in which Oxen may experience unhappiness in love or financial setbacks. Illness due to stress could also greatly hinder their progress, and they could be prone to accidents. Their troubles will start to ease with the advent of autumn.

## The Year of the Sheep-2003

A slow year. No illness or quarrels bother the Oxen, although they must be careful as there is the possibility of loss where they had expected gain.

## The Year of the Monkey-2004

A lucky year with the potential for prosperous new ventures and partnerships.

## The Year of the Rooster-2005

Success and happiness continue, although the Ox must be on guard against being swindled and must not be thrown off balance by some strange or unexpected occurrence.## The Year of the Dog—2006

The Ox's paths are cleared of obstacles. Any problems that do arise are actually smaller than they at first appear. However, the Ox may be forced to travel and experience separation from a loved one.

## The Year of the Boar—2007

A busy but mixed year, in which Oxen may experience some problems in both work and family life. These troubles, though, are actually minor, and on the whole Oxen fare quite well.

## The Year of the Rat—2008

This is a lucky and prosperous year for the Ox, and they will have much to celebrate.

## The Year of the Ox—2009

A good year for marriage or the formation of new partnerships, although the Ox's plans may suffer some unexpected delays. Problems are small, but may involve some unwanted travel or entertaining.

## The Year of the Tiger—2010

A difficult year, in which the Ox meets with opposition from many quarters. A year to be patient and persevering and not take unnecessary risks or drastic action.## The Year of the Rabbit-2011

Progress is steady this year, although there may be sad news concerning a friend or family member.

## Some Famous Oxen
Willy Brandt, Harry Bridges, Richard Burton, Charlie Chaplin, Joan Chen, Gary Cooper, Tom Courtenay, Sammy Davis, Jr., Walt Disney, Gerald Ford, Abel Gance, Adolf Hitler, Emperor Hirohito, Dustin Hoffman, Sir Anthony Hopkins, Rock Hudson, Alan Ladd, Hedy Lamarr, Burt Lancaster, Vivien Leigh, Claude Lelouch, Patricia Neal, Jawaharlal Nehru, Paul Newman, Richard Nixon, Sam Peckinpah, Tyrone Power, Robert Redford, Vanessa Redgrave, Sir Ralph Richardson, Peter Sellers, Rod Steiger, Lee Strasberg, Margaret Thatcher, Vincent van Gogh, Gore Vidal.