# Three-
# The Tiger

!Tiger Image

Chinese Name: Laohu
Direction: East-Northeast
Fixed Element: Wood
Stem: Positive
Western Sign: Aquarius
Color: Red
Flower: Carnation
Fragrance: Jasmine
Tree: Sycamore
Birthstone: Ruby
Lucky Number: 7
Years of the Tiger: 1950, 1962, 1974, 1986, 1998, 2010, 2022

虎

## The Year of the Tiger

A tumultuous and volatile year, often one of conflict, disaster, and even war (the First World War erupted in the Year of the Tiger). It is also a time of boldness in which nothing is done quietly or on a small scale. Good and bad are taken to their extremes, and people act impulsively and in dramatic and often drastic ways. Tempers flare, and relationships and agreements will be easily broken. On the other hand, it is a vigorous time, a time of change in which renewed vitality can be injected into failing or lagging ventures. The searing heat of the Tiger year will touch everyone, but it will gradually diminish, and the year will end far more quietly and peacefully than it began.## The Tiger Personality

In China, the Tiger represents power, passion, and derring-do, and is revered as the guardian against the three main perils that can afflict a household: fire, thieves, and ghosts.

Tigers are impulsive, energetic, dynamic, and vivacious. Restless and reckless, they are hungry for action and thrive on being the center of attention. Quick-tempered and outspoken about their feelings, they are equally affectionate and generous, and possesses a wonderful sense of humor. They can, however, have suspicious natures, which makes them either prone to wavering indecisiveness—like a cautious, stalking cat—or given to impulsive and rash action. These seeming contradictions are the two main shortcomings in the Tiger's life.

Like their friend the Dog, Tigers are true humanitarians. They are lovers of children, art, music, fine dining, conversation, and anything that stimulates their senses or imaginations.Their energy, curiosity, and enthusiasm can seem boundless. They have huge egos, and all the fame and success in the world will mean nothing to them if their egos are damaged. They can overlook larger issues while the smallest slight will enrage them. When hindered or defeated, they can become roaring tyrants, the meanest and pettiest of all despots who will go to any lengths, even to burning their own houses down, to get revenge. They will stalk their prey relentlessly, and hell hath no fury as a Tiger scorned. When jealous, they can be overpossessive and quarrelsome.

Rebellious and adventurous, neither materialistic nor security-conscious, all Tigers must have one period in their lives in which they get to act out their impulses and express and find themselves, whether it be by crossing a desert or an ocean or living the Bohemian life in Paris or New York or Tangiers. In their youth, they will passionately pursue the fulfillment of their dreams. Romantic by nature, they need to live life to the fullest. At their positive best they are generous, warm, and sympathetic. At their worst, they are selfish, implacable, obstinate, and unreasonable.

When depressed, Tigers will require copious amounts of sympathy and attention. Don't hold back. They genuinely need it, they will be exceedingly grateful, and you will be amazed at how quickly they recover and proceed undaunted on their chosen course, in spite of whatever advice you may have given them to the contrary.The female of this sign can be a sleek and elegant feline, a charming and vivacious hostess—but remember, she is a Tigress, and although her claws may be hidden, they are sharp and at the ready should she be crossed or taunted. Although an adventuress, she is also a wonderful and devoted mother. Caring, protective, and nurturing, she will delight in her offspring, as they will in her. They will be entranced by her brilliant smile and her warm and generous nature. She loves to entertain them, dote on them, and educate them. Although it may appear that she spoils them, this is hardly the case. She sees to it that they learn their lessons and follow the rules.

The loyal and reasonable Dog makes an excellent match for the Tiger, appreciative of the Tiger's adventurous and generous spirit and able to advise and restrain the Tiger in practical ways. The Horse makes just as good a partner, sharing the Tiger's lust for life and love of action, while the honest and sanguine Boar will bring security and stability to the Tiger's otherwise volatile existence. Rat, Sheep, Rooster, and another Tiger will also make good matches for the Tiger.

Of all the animal signs, Tigers should avoid the Monkey. This quick-witted and elusive Trickster of Chinese legend cannot help but taunt and enrage the Tiger—and may even take a sadistic delight in doing so. The Tiger will be no match for the Monkey's guile, and will suffer as a result. A union with the Snake is also ill advised. Both signs are equally suspicious, but where the Tiger is rambunctious and forthright, the Snake is silent and deadly. Tigers could also experience bitter clashes with the stubborn and authoritarian Ox, whose horns are capable of wounding them severely.Tiger children are talkative, inquisitive, and full of energy, capable of being loving and affectionate little cubs and hyperactive and uncontrollable terrors at the same time. Bright, charming, and confident, their eagerness and curiosity are bound to get them into trouble, from which at times they may have to be rescued. But don't worry, they will survive. They just have to find things out for themselves. They express their emotions openly and loudly, so you'll always know what they are feeling. They may dominate their less aggressive peers, but they are also warm, affectionate, generous, and highly gregarious. They must be taught to hold their tempers in check at an early age, and given the right amount of discipline, love, attention, and understanding, the Tiger child, although at times driving you to distraction, can be a source of utter and lasting delight.

# The Five Types of Tigers

## Metal Tiger—1950, 2010

Passionate and aggressive, Metal Tigers are utterly sure of what they want and will be tireless and even ruthless about getting it. Self-centered and ostentatious, a spectacle unto themselves, they project a glamorous image. Their actions can be sudden, unorthodox, and radical. They love to act independently and can be overly confident and optimistic in their expectations. They are constant only to themselves and their desires, their hunger and curiosity can lack discernment, and they can be equally susceptible to both good and bad stimuli.
## Water Tiger—1902, 1962, 2022

Open-minded realists with calmer natures, who are drawn to new ideas and experiences, these Tigers can be excellent judges of the truth, for they have keen intuitive and communicative abilities. They can be indecisive or procrastinate where action is called for, although they are capable of great concentration once they apply themselves.

## Wood Tiger—1914, 1974, 2034

The Wood element gives these Tigers an even disposition. They are affable, practical, and impartial in their judgments. Charming and social animals, they are adroit at bringing people together and at manipulating them to get what they want. Their loyalty, though, is principally to themselves, and no one is indispensable. They can be lacking in self-discipline and have a tendency to shirk responsibility.## Fire Tiger-1926, 1986

Fire Tigers are highly unpredictable and restless creatures, full of volatile and boundless energy, whose actions are bound to be dramatic and forceful and effective. Charismatic, theatrical, and even more expressive than Tigers of other elements, they have strong leadership qualities. They are also extremely generous and optimistic. Passionate and sensual, they live for the present and embrace everything in their lives on a highly personal basis.

## Earth Tiger-1938, 1998

These are more practical and less sentimental types of Tiger who rarely allow their emotions to cloud their judgments. Truth is important to them, as are status and recognition, they work diligently to achieve both and are not inclined to take risks or act on impulse. Their relationships (this can include marriage) tend to be more utilitarian in nature, and at times they can appear as mercenary and insensitive.

## Influence of Time of Birth

**The Hours of the Rat—11 P.M. to 1 A.M.**

An excitable Tiger who loves to argue for the sake of argument, a fighter with a loving and sentimental nature, but perhaps less generous when it comes to money.**The Hours of the Ox—1 A.M. to 3 A.M.**

This may be a calmer and more disciplined type of Tiger, but with an extremely stubborn, opinionated, and willful disposition.

**The Hours of the Tiger—3 A.M. to 5 A.M.**

A "pure" Tiger—restless, vivacious, colorful, expressive, independent, and given to intense mood swings.

**The Hours of the Rabbit—5 A.M. to 7 A.M.**

The Rabbit makes this Tiger less impetuous and impatient and more inclined to caution and good judgment, with a gentler disposition, although he or she is by no means timid or lackluster.

**The Hours of the Dragon—7 A.M. to 9 A.M.**

A colorful and driven Tiger who could soar to great heights because of the Dragon's high standards and ambition.

**The Hours of the Snake—9 A.M. to 11 A.M.**

The Snake imparts wisdom and guile to this Tiger, making him or her more inclined to watchful reticence before striking.

**The Hours of the Horse—11 A.M. to 1 P.M.**

Both signs here are restless, easily stirred, and likely to shun responsibility, although the horse may impart a certain practicality to the Tiger's derring-do.**The Hours of the Sheep—1 PM to 3 PM**
Potentially less aggressive, given to quiet observation, with artistic inclinations, but still capable of being inordinately jealous and possessive.

**The Hours of the Monkey—3 PM to 5 PM**
A powerful combination of strength and guile, muscle and intelligence. If the two signs are balanced, this is an individual who will go far.

**The Hours of the Rooster—5 PM to 7 PM**
Tigers with a colorful flair—not that they don't have that already—who make a point of being heard—not that they don't do that already, either. They have a sharp and discerning eye, at least where others are concerned, and no one is left off the hook.

**The Hours of the Dog—7 PM to 9 PM**
A more reasonable Tiger who is imbued with the Dog's openmindedness and sense of fair play, although this big cat's tongue may at times be as sharp as its claws, especially when attacked or wounded.

**The Hours of the Boar—9 PM to 11 PM**
The Tiger's impetuousness is combined with the Boar's naiveté. An easygoing and contented creature who nonetheless could become vindictive when thwarted or the going gets rough.# The Tiger's Prospects in Coming Years

## The Year of the Dragon—2000

Unhappiness could come as the result of separation from a loved one or the breakup of a partnership. It will be hard to raise money, and Tigers could be persuaded to make unwise investments.

## The Year of the Snake—2001

Progress is steady this year, although with no significant gains. Neither are there any significant losses. The Tigers' main troubles will come from members of the opposite sex.

## The Year of the Horse—2002

A very good year in which money comes easily and great gains are in store.

## The Year of the Sheep—2003

There are no serious problems this year. Tigers could find themselves preoccupied with difficult negotiations, tensions at work, and family disputes. They could also suffer the loss of some personal belongings.

## The Year of the Monkey—2004

A difficult year, in which Tigers experience many setbacks and irritations. A time to avoid confrontations and legal disputes.## The Year of the Rooster—2005

Problems loom, but Tigers should not give in to anxiety, as help comes from unexpected sources and newfound friends.

## The Year of the Dog—2006

A protected time, although Tigers will have to work hard if they are to be successful and will feel frustrated by the limitations that are placed upon them. However, luck comes through the support of influential people who aid them in their plans.

## The Year of the Boar—2007

The prosperity that marks the beginning of this year does not last. Tigers must be wary of new associates and high-risk ventures.

## The Year of the Rat—2008

A difficult year for business. Money is hard to come by, and Tigers must avoid acting on impulse.

## The Year of the Ox—2009

A frustrating year, in which Tigers may find their plans and aspirations hindered or blocked by someone in authority, leading to quarrels and misunderstandings. A time for Tigers to curb their impatience and temper. Their troubles will pass if they can maintain a cool head in the face of adversity.## The Year of the Tiger–2010

This is not a good year to take any risks. Tigers may find that they have to spend money rather than make it, but are fortunate in that others come to their aid when they need it.

## The Year of the Rabbit–2011

A good year for both business and romance, and Tigers will find contentment in their overall achievements.

## Some Famous Tigers

Pierre Balmain, Ludwig van Beethoven, Simon Bolivar, Emily Brontí, Roger Corman, Charles de Gaulle, Giscard D'Estaing, Vittorio De Sica, Isadora Duncan, Marguerite Duras, Dwight D. Eisenhower, Queen Elizabeth II, Sir Alec Guinness, Hugh Hefner, Ho Chi Minh, John Houseman, Norman Jewison, Jessica Lange, Gypsy Rose Lee, Karl Malden, Groucho Marx, Victor Mature, Marilyn Monroe, Philip Noyce, Rudolph Nureyev, Oliver Reed, Diana Rigg, John Schlesinger, Romy Schneider, Jean Seberg, Cybill Shepherd, Tennessee Williams, Stevie Wonder.