# Four-
## The Rabbit

Chinese Name: Tù
Direction: East
Fixed Element: Wood
Stem: Negative
Western Sign: Pisces
Color: Grey
Flower: Rose
Fragrance: Shalimar
Tree: Poplar
Birthstone: Sapphire
Lucky Number: 4
Years of the Rabbit: 1951, 1963, 1975, 1987, 1999, 1211, 2023

## The Year of the Rabbit

A tranquil year, a time to rest and recuperate after the turmoil and upheavals of the year of the Tiger. People will be inclined to avoid any unpleasantness, and good manners, diplomacy, and gentle persuasion will be the rule of the day. Life will move at a leisurely pace while at the same time money can be made without strenuous effort.## The Rabbit Personality

The agile Hares leap over or slip around any obstacles in their paths. They have remarkable resilience, enabling them always to recover from whatever calamities might befall them. In Chinese mythology, the Rabbit or Hare is the symbol of longevity. In Chinese paintings, they are often depicted with a large vat, in which they are preparing the elixir of life. The Rabbit is said to derive its essence from the moon, and the story of the Hare in the Moon is one of the famous "lost legends" of China. The Moon Rabbit is a major figure in the Chinese Mid-autumn Festival. The Western Easter Rabbit is the product of a similar belief in the Moon Rabbit from pre-Christian times; the egg is a symbol of fertility. The Rabbit or Hare has ancient and universal associations with the Easter season, or spring equinox, and the Chinese calendar is always arranged so that the spring equinox occurs within the Rabbit month.
The Rabbit is regarded as one of the most fortunate signs in the Chinese horoscope, deemed the most likely to find happiness and contentment in life. Those born under this sign are the epitome of graciousness, good manners, kindness, sound judgment, refinement, and aestheticism. They are likely to live tranquil lives (depending on the hour of their birth) in a quiet and peaceful environment. They have artistic natures and are lovers of beauty. They are also extremely lucky in business and monetary transactions, adroit at making deals to their own advantage. Sophisticated and self-indulgent and lovers of leisure, their creature comforts are very important to them, and they always put their own desires first. They value themselves above all else, and will discard anything or anyone they find too demanding or upsetting to the much-valued tranquility of their existence. They loathe discomfort of any sort. In fact, security and comfort could become an obsession with some Rabbits. Although kind and considerate to their loved ones, they can be ruthless in their dealings with outsiders and can demonstrate a fiendish cunning. They are inscrutable negotiators whose thoughts can be impossible to read. Although they appear docile on the surface, their gentle and unobtrusive manner conceals a strong will that quietly and methodically pursues its goals with caution and discretion.

At their worst, Rabbits can be overly sensitive and imaginative. They will always be disarmingly civil and polite, even to their worst enemies, while concealing a dark and brooding animosity. Private and highly secretive, they can resort to subversive means to bring down anyone they feel is a threat. Joseph Stalin and Fidel Castro are both Rabbits. Rabbits also have a tendency to hedge around issues and shift the blame onto others.Rabbits have an acute distaste for conflict or confrontation of any sort. They are at heart avowed pacifists. They don't understand why people can't simply be polite and get along. They are also equipped with an acute and agile sense of knowing how to stay out of harm's way. They are ultimate survivalists. As friends, they will certainly lend you money when you need it, but do not count on them for anything more. They're certainly willing to take you to the river, just don't ask them to swim across it with you. They are prone to be moody, and can appear withdrawn or even completely detached from those around them.

At their best, Rabbits are sophisticated, urbane, and intelligent, sympathetic listeners and marvelous hosts. They also have a knack for accurately remembering details that others might overlook or forget. They are extremely thorough, and often make good scholars. They will be admired and sought after for their impeccable manners, graciousness, wit, sound advice, and refined taste. Their innate detachment and self-assurance makes them tolerant and nonjudgmental; they believe in "Live and let live," and living is something they know how to do well. They have great finesse, and are excellent hosts and entertainers.

The female Rabbit is composed and very feminine. She is gentle, considerate, and understanding, and her friends find her warm and delightful and very energetic and enthusiastic about the things she likes to do. She loves, indeed needs, to be pampered, and the man she marries will be required to provide her with the luxuries and security she believes she needs as well as cater to her more sullen moods.
Rabbit children are sweet, obedient, and even-tempered. They are easy to discipline and are able to quietly concentrate on one thing at time. They are very sensitive to the moods of their parents and the emotional climate of the household, and know instinctively how to act to protect themselves and not make any waves. They are able to mask their feelings, and at times may be difficult to read. They will not be openly defiant, but this does not mean they are not willful. They know what to say and do to get their way or bargain for a better deal. They learn their way around people and problems at an early age, and can deal philosophically with any setbacks that come their way.

The Rabbit will make the best of all possible matches with a person born in the year of the Sheep. They share much in common, and will make a lasting and very successful union. The sensual, easygoing Boar and the honest, fair-minded Dog will make equally good partners for the Rabbit. The Rat, Ox, Dragon, Snake, Monkey, or another Rabbit will make good secondary matches. The Rabbit should avoid any relationship with the Rooster, whose vanity and harsh criticism the Rabbit will find intolerable. Rabbits will be equally unimpressed by the rash and imposing Tiger, and exacerbated by the temperamental and capricious Horse.# The Five Types of Rabbits

## Metal Rabbit—1951, 2011

These Rabbits are physically and mentally stronger than Rabbits of other elements. They have unwavering belief in their own judgments and abilities, are less likely to compromise, and are more inclined to assume responsibility and show initiative in work. Metal makes them highly preoccupied with their goals and desires. They are especially cunning and ambitious, which is well-masked by their cool logic and intelligence. Although often indifferent to the opinions of others, they are openly moved by beauty and any well-executed form of creative expression. They are ardent lovers and devoted workers and can be inclined to dark moods.

## Water Rabbit—1903, 1963, 2023

Empathics with emotional and fragile natures, Water Rabbits are highly sensitive to their environments and the thoughts and feelings of others. As a result, they cannot bear any form of conflict. On the other hand, they are able to unconsciously transmit their ideas to others and draw them to them, and are often surprised by the support they receive. In their negative moods, they can dwell too much on past injuries, indulge in self-pity, be plagued by dark imaginings that make them highly suspicious of others' motives, and become incommunicative.# Wood Rabbit—1915, 1975, 2035

This is a double Wood sign (Wood is the Rabbit's fixed element), that could produce generous and sympathetic Rabbits who at times may be too charitable and permissive for their own good, allowing others to take advantage of them. They thrive in corporate or institutional settings, where they will steadily and diplomatically climb the ladder of success. Because of their desire to fit in and not offend, they may hedge or hide behind bureaucratic red tape, often hurting themselves as well as others as a result. They must learn to be more decisive and discriminating in order to protect themselves.

# Fire Rabbit—1927, 1987, 2047

Fire makes these Rabbits temperamental, demonstrative, and affectionate, although they are still able to mask their emotions with the Rabbit's outward guise of detachment. They are reputed to have more strength of character than Rabbits of other elements, and they are gifted with leadership qualities, but these too are tempered by diplomacy and moderation. In negotiations they will use indirect methods, such as go-betweens and secret liaisons, in order to get the deal done. At times they may be outspoken and emotional, but, like all Rabbits, confrontation is the last thing they desire. When negative, they can be easily angered or hurt and prone to neurosis.## Earth Rabbit—1939, 1999

Earth makes these Rabbits serious, steadfast, and constant, and less inclined to be ruled by their emotions. They deliberate before they move, and their actions are always well calculated. They are introverted creatures who turn inward to deal with their problems. They are materialistic and primarily concerned with their own well-being, although they will recognize and strive to overcome their flaws.

## Influence of Time of Birth

**The Hours of the Rat—11 P.M. to 1 A.M.**

A lively and affectionate Rabbit, shrewd, informed, and less in-different to others.

**The Hours of the Ox—1 A.M. to 3 A.M.**

The Ox imbues this Rabbit with more authority, steadfastness, and strength than one might otherwise expect from the normally timorous Hare.

**The Hours of the Tiger—3 A.M. to 5 A.M.**

A more aggressive and quick-witted Rabbit, imbued with the Tiger's impulsive energy while at the same time able to keep it under control.# The Hours of the Rabbit

**The Hours of the Rabbit—5 A.M. to 7 A.M.**

A "double" or "pure" Rabbit. A philosophical pacifist who rarely, if ever, takes sides. True believers in Buddhist "non-action," they know how to take good care of themselves.

**The Hours of the Dragon—7 A.M. to 9 A.M.**

Ambitious and hard-nosed Rabbits who are able to inspire and command others to carry out their plans.

**The Hours of the Snake—9 A.M. to 11 A.M.**

Self-sufficient, reflective, and mutable Rabbits who are highly intuitive and sensitive to their surroundings.

**The Hours of the Horse—11 A.M. to 1 P.M.**

A more outgoing, self-confident, and spirited Rabbit, with a happy disposition.

**The Hours of the Sheep—1 P.M. to 3 P.M.**

Generous, sympathetic, and tolerant Rabbits who are capable of loving others as much as themselves.

**The Hours of the Monkey—3 P.M. to 5 P.M.**

A mischievous and conniving Rabbit, full of laughter and tricks. The Rabbit's cool diplomacy and finesse is matched with the Monkey's charm and guile—a master dealmaker and escape artist.**The Hours of the Rooster—5 P.M. to 7 P.M.**

Given the Rabbit's sensitive insight and the Rooster's judgment, this combination has an eloquence that demands attention.

**The Hours of the Dog—7 P.M. to 9 P.M.**

More involved and moralistic types of Rabbit, whose acute sensitivity coupled with the Dog's sense of justice could make them more aggressive and outspoken on social issues and the welfare of others.

**The Hours of the Boar—9 P.M. to 11 P.M.**

The Boar's easygoing ways and gregariousness could make these Rabbits less selfish and more concerned with the welfare of those around them, especially in terms of their own self-interest, and as long as those others are ready to adapt to and not disrupt the comfort of their surroundings.

# The Rabbit's Prospects in Coming Years

## The Year of the Dragon—2000

A mixed year money-wise, Rabbits will be reasonably happy and busy at home. They could make powerful new friends, and their gains will outweigh their losses.## The Year of the Snake—2001

Difficulties come at Rabbits from several directions this year, and it will be hard for them to make any tangible progress. A change of residence or a new job are distinct possibilities, and they may be faced with some unplanned expenses.

## The Year of the Horse—2002

A good year, in which luck comes from meeting influential and helpful people. Losses are recouped, and there could be much traveling and entertaining.

## The Year of the Sheep—2003

A prosperous year, in which plans go smoothly and much is accomplished.

## The Year of the Monkey—2004

Financial deals and contracts could be tricky this year or meet with unexpected delays, the Rabbit should be wary of being betrayed by a close ally.

## The Year of the Rooster—2005

A difficult year beset by problems at home and at work. Rabbits should not try to act independently, but seek the help of others to support them. Their tribulations will be overcome, but not without anxiety and frustration.## The Year of the Dog—2006

Gains will be made and problems sorted out, although Rabbits may well be the target of criticism by superiors or hindered in some way by those around them.

## The Year of the Boar—2007

Rabbits should avoid making promises or commitments this year, as unforeseen difficulties are likely to come at them as though out of thin air. They must be very realistic and cautious and take the necessary steps to protect themselves.

## The Year of the Rat—2008

A calm year for the Rabbit, with no problems or surprises. Progress is steady, although not particularly fruitful.

## The Year of the Ox—2009

Rabbits could face some health problems this year as the result of anxiety and the loss of or separation from a loved one. They are beset by disappointments and hard work that bears little fruit. A year to lie low and not try to implement any moves or changes.

## The Year of the Tiger—2010

A distasteful and disturbing year, in which Rabbits must exercise more than their usual caution to avoid conflicts and disputes. They must also be wary where money and investments are involved. Gains will be made toward the end of the year.## The Year of the Rabbit—2011

A most auspicious year. Financial gains, promotions, recognition, and unexpected benefits are foreseen, along with happy developments and celebrations at home.

## Some Famous Rabbits

Harry Belafonte, Ingrid Bergman, Claudia Cardinale, Fidel Castro, Francis Ford Coppola, Albert Einstein, Peter Falk, David Frost, Cary Grant, Jomo Kenyatta, Nancy Kwan, Gina Lollobrigida, Ali McGraw, Henry Miller, France Nuyen, David Rockefeller, Ken Russell, George C. Scott, Benjamin Spock, Joseph Stalin, Meryl Streep, Queen Victoria, Johannes Vorster, Orson Welles, Zhang Yimou.