# Five-
## The Dragon

!Dragon Image

Chinese Name: Long
Direction: East-Southeast
Fixed Element: Wood
Stem: Positive
Western Sign: Aries
Color: Gold
Flower: Rose
Fragrance: Eau Verte
Tree: Sequoia
Birthstone: Ruby
Lucky Number: 2
Years of the Dragon: 1952, 1964, 1976, 1988, 2000, 2012
## The Year of the Dragon

An expansive, combustible, energetic, and exhilarating year, in which caution is thrown to the wind and grandiose schemes and ventures are embarked upon. Everything and everyone is touched this year by the Dragon's indomitable spirit and colossal ambition and daring. Money will be easily obtained, as big spending and speculation will be the rule of the day. This is indeed a time to act, as great things can and will be done, but we must also be cautious lest, like Icarus, we fly too close to the sun and come crashing down on melting wings. Fortunes as well as disasters will come in huge waves, and tempers will erupt as people and even nations rebel against constrictions and injustice of every sort. As there is nothing mediocre about the Dragon, successes as well as failures will be manifested on a grand scale. The Chinese regard this as a most auspicious year to launch a new business, get married, or have children, as the mighty and benevolent Dragon is the harbinger of happiness and good fortune.

## The Dragon Personality

In China, the Dragon is the symbol of the emperor or Yang—male—energy. The Dragon is the guardian of wealth and power. Like its close relative the Snake (often referred to as "the little Dragon"), the Dragon is a karmic sign, and those born in the Dragon year are said to wear the "horns of destiny."

Proud, aristocratic, eccentric, egotistical, and extremely forthright and direct, Dragons will establish their goals and ideals quite early in life.They set high standards for themselves and have the potential to accomplish great things. They possess little to no self-doubt, and are courageous, individualistic, and pioneering. Inspired by their own grandiose and colorful visions, whatever they attempt will be either stupendous, trail-blazing successes or dramatic failures. For them there is no safe or middle road, only victory or death. Whatever their chosen path, they must follow it, regardless of the consequences. They were born with a mission in life, and it is their destiny to fulfill it. Zealous and impetuous, full of vitality and strength, Dragons are veritable storehouses of dynamic energy. However, they must learn to temper their early enthusiasm, as they could run the risk of seeing everything burn up like a meteor.

While he or she may be magnanimous, strong, and decisive, the straightforward and truthful Dragon is distinctly lacking in cunning or guile. In a sense, Dragons regard such ways as beneath them, and in their pride and aloofness they may neglect to pay attention to the subversive or deceitful ways of those around them. They operate on strength and truth alone, and cannot understand why others don't do the same and meet them fair and square. Often this is because they can intimidate, even when they don't mean to, for in a direct confrontation the Dragon is incontestable, an indomitable champion of the joust, a chivalrous but unbeatable opponent.Strong-tempered and often a raging sea of emotions when crossed (the sea is the Dragon's ancestral home), Dragons are just as quick to forgive and forget once they have let off steam (or smoke). They can be breathing fire on you one minute and then tenderly dressing your wounds the next, believing that you have learned your lesson or, at the very least, that they have been heard. Although imperious and dogmatic, they are at heart true believers in personal dignity, individual freedom, and human rights—kings or queens who know that to rule is to serve—although it may at times appear that they believe themselves to be above the law. Filial and generous by nature, whatever differences or conflicts they may have with their families or friends will be immediately set aside when they call for help. Dragons seldom waver or lie, and it will be hard for you not to place your confidence in them. They are open people. You can read them like a book. It is difficult for them to hide their feelings, and they rarely try to do so. Why should they bother? Their emotions are genuine and straight from the heart, and when they say they love you, you can be sure they mean it.

Being diplomatic and soft-spoken can be difficult for the Dragon. Should they belong to the less refined type, their direct approach can appear as brusque and even abrasive, offending and antagonizing people who see them as egocentric and arrogant. In spite of this shortcoming, their presence and magnetism inspire and motivate those around them, and they will have a great number of admirers who support and believe in them. Their greatest pitfalls are overconfidence in their own abilities and refusal to accept to defeat. They will spend all of their resources before admitting to failure. They need to learn when to retreat and when to guard their flanks.
The female Dragon is the Empress Dowager herself, the archetypal matriarch as well as woman-warrior, a builder and burner of cities (Joan of Arc was a Dragon). She is totally emancipated and independent-minded, and considers herself equal to any man, if not better. She is a regal, straightforward, and practical individual who is strictly to the point. This aspect of her personality will be expressed in her dress, which will be elegant in its simplicity. She seldom bothers with unnecessary adornment—the brilliance of her being is more than enough to tell you who she is.

Dragon children are high-spirited, energetic, fearless, forceful, and emotionally intense. They are likely to wander off dauntlessly into snake-infested woods or start swimming across the river, unable to comprehend the panic they are causing among the adults watching over them. They establish their principles and ideals at an early age, and act accordingly to prove their worth, both to themselves and to their parents and teachers. They will have innumerable idols and role models as they grow. Their dreams of greatness are real and tangible to them, and their efforts to perform and improve themselves are sincere and should be encouraged and praised. Their self-esteem is extremely important to them. Their emotions are intense, and ridicule can hurt them deeply. These children are, after all, their own worst critics. They judge themselves harshly, and if they make a mistake they'll be the first to see it. Dragon children were born to lead and excel at whatever they do, and they are selfreliant, proud, and absolutely true to their ideals.The Dragon will be attracted first and foremost to the charming and irresistible Monkey, whose guile and wit are a perfect complement to the Dragon's brave-hearted honesty and power. The Monkey likewise will be drawn to the Dragon's majesty, strength, and dynamic energy. The Monkey is the wise court jester and advisor to the Dragon-king (or queen). They will find a deep affinity and mutual love and understanding, and make a happy and successful team. A Dragon-Rat union will be equally as winning, and the Dragon will also make a good match with the wise, alluring, and serenely elegant but practical Snake, who will be able to quietly temper the Dragon's excesses.

Ox, Tiger, Rabbit, Sheep, Horse, Boar, and another Dragon each make good secondary matches. Only the Dog will make a miserable match for the Dragon. The Dog will be highly critical and mistrustful of the Dragon and cast a cynical pall over his or her grandiose designs.

# The Five Types of Dragons

## Metal Dragon—1940, 2000

This is perhaps the most determined and strong-willed of all the Dragons, who values honesty and integrity above all else—a great virtue but one which can also make them inflexible and they may be fanatical about their beliefs, and they are able to intimidate less aggressive or weaker individuals into submitting to their will. They are decidedly action-oriented and combative, and will stake their lives on their convictions. When negative, they can be excessively self-important and stubborn, and will go it alone when others refuse to accept their leadership.
## Water Dragon—1952, 2012

Water has a calming and beneficial effect, making these Dragons less imperious, egotistical, and power-hungry than Dragons of other elements. Theirs is a "live and let live" philosophy. They believe firmly in individual freedom and dignity and "To thine own self be true." They have formidable willpower and are capable of marketing their ideas with ceaseless dedication. Keen and intuitive observers, they know when and where to apply force and are subsequently very successful negotiators. Tolerant and liberal-minded, they can accept rejection or defeat without rancor. They are progressive, expansive, growth-oriented, and patient in their outlook and know how to act wisely to achieve their goals. Their fundamental flaw is that they can be overly optimistic, trying to accomplish too much at once while risking everything in the process.

## Wood Dragon—1904, 1964, 2024

These Dragons' every action will be guided by well thought-out logic. They are good at formulating and applying their ideas and at developing innovative and revolutionary concepts. Less fierce and domineering than other Dragons, they work well with others and are able to compromise when it is to their advantage, but can be prone to endless and tiresome debate when opposed. Like all Dragons, they are proud, outspoken, and fearless when challenged.
## Fire Dragon—1916, 1976, 2036

The most competitive, aggressive, and upright of all the Dragons, they have tremendous energy coupled with a zealousness that can verge on the fanatical. They have great leadership qualities, but these can be blemished by their tendencies to be martinets with Messiah complexes. In spite of this, they are open and humane and impartial seekers of the truth, able to inspire others to soar with them to great heights. When negative, they can be short-tempered, ruthlessly ambitious, intolerant, and inconsiderate.

## Earth Dragon—1928, 1988

These gregarious, executive, and autocratic Dragons are nonetheless fair-minded and open and appreciative of other points of view even when they don't necessarily agree with them. Earth makes them realistic and objective. They have a proclivity to subjugate others and a desire to be in control of their environments, but they are also reasonable and less dictatorial than Dragons of other elements. They are tireless workers who will labor incessantly to improve their talents and maximize their potential. These aristocratic individuals are quiet, strong, and courageous and less inclined to temperamental outbursts.# Influence of Time of Birth

**The Hours of the Rat—11 P.M. to 1 A.M.**

The Dragon's innate generosity may be tempered by the Rat's frugality, and the Rat's caution and sentimental and affectionate nature may make this individual inclined to be subjective and indecisive.

**The Hours of the Ox—1 A.M. to 3 A.M.**

A stolid, slow-moving Dragon, who can be extremely stubborn and forceful when challenged or crossed.

**The Hours of the Tiger—3 A.M. to 5 A.M.**

The Tiger makes this Dragon impulsive, restless, impatient, and generous to a fault. This person may be suspicious and indecisive as well, and could be reckless and even hysterical, but he or she will be a compulsive worker.

**The Hours of the Rabbit—5 A.M. to 7 A.M.**

These quiet and debonair Dragons are given to reflection before they act. Here strength and diplomacy are well blended. May be more luxury-loving than most other Dragons.**The Hours of the Dragon—7 A.M. to 9 A.M.**

He or She Who-Must-Be-Obeyed. An imperious and commanding individual who demands attention and devotion. His or her word is an imperial or even religious edict, not to be questioned.

**The Hours of the Snake—9 A.M. to 11 A.M.**

Precise and secretive Dragons who plot every move they make. The Snake's charm and quiet allure masks their intensity and ruthless ambition.

**The Hours of the Horse—11 A.M. to 1 P.M.**

The Horse's capricious selfishness may override the Dragon's generosity and sense of duty. A gregarious and fast-talking high-stakes gambler.

**The Hours of the Sheep—1 P.M. to 3 P.M.**

An understanding and modest Dragon who knows how to get things done without applying brute force. A good negotiator with artistic inclinations.

**The Hours of the Monkey—3 P.M. to 5 P.M.**

Witty and dazzling court jesters—but don't let them fool you. They are a formidable combination of strength and guile, the Tricksters who see through all lies.**The Hours of the Rooster—5 P.M. to 7 P.M.**
A colorful, imaginative, and fearless Dragon whose pride is immeasurable and who may have a certain preening vanity.

**The Hours of the Dog—7 P.M. to 9 P.M.**
A practical, down-to-earth but good-humored Dragon, but who may have a nasty bite or acid tongue when attacked.

**The Hours of the Boar—9 P.M. to 11 P.M.**
A warmhearted, sensual, and generous Dragon, who will be a devoted and faithful friend.

# The Dragon's Prospects in Coming Years

## The Year of the Dragon—2000
An excellent year, in which success comes easily. Dragons could acquire both fame and fortune.

## The Year of the Snake—2001
The luck of the Dragon year continues, although they may encounter some minor opposition and experience romantic problems as home life is neglected.## The Year of the Horse—2002
A year marked by uncertainty and unpleasant surprises, although problems will be resolved if Dragons do not overreact.

## The Year of the Sheep—2003
Progress is moderate with no significant gains in career or finances. Home life is peaceful and free of disruption or any negative disturbances.

## The Year of the Monkey—2004
Progress is foreseen in career and finances, but Dragons must still be careful to avoid legal entanglements. There is the danger of broken friendships or romantic strife if the Dragon is too headstrong.

## The Year of the Rooster—2005
A year marked by good news, recognition, financial gain, and social advancement.

## The Year of the Dog—2006
A difficult year, filled with unexpected problems and hindrances in which Dragons must be careful to avoid confronting their enemies.

## The Year of the Boar—2007
Luck shines once again on the Dragon. Business or finances show mixed results, but the Dragon encounters few major problems, and family life is troublefree.## The Year of the Rat—2008

A very good year for both business and romance. No major problems at home or at work, although Dragons must still be careful, as one bad deal would deplete their resources.

## The Year of the Ox—2009

Although progress is moderate, this is still a fortunate year for Dragons, as they are protected from the numerous conflicts and troubles that seem to surround them.

## The Year of the Tiger—2010

The Dragons' plans are blocked or hampered by others, and they find it difficult to get anything substantial accomplished. Their home lives are also disturbed by sad news or the loss or departure of a loved one.

## The Year of the Rabbit—2011

A good and calm year. A stable time in which fair progress in business is foreseen. The Dragons' domestic life is peaceful and stable, although they could experience some minor health problems.# Some Famous Dragons

Bernardo Bertolucci, Shirley Temple Black, Rosemary Clooney, Jimmy Connors, Joan Crawford, Chen Kaige, Bing Crosby, Salvador Dali, Willem de Kooning, Kirk Douglas, Glenn Ford, Francisco Franco, Jean Gabin, Jackie Gleason, Graham Greene, Ché Guevara, Mark Hamill, Lawrence Harvey, Sterling Hayden, Edward Heath, Trevor Howard, Joan of Arc, Eartha Kitt, Stanley Kubrick, John Lennon, Peter Lorre, Gabriel García Marquez, Walter Mondale, Roger Moore, Jeanne Moreau, Yehudi Menuhin, Gregory Peck, Tony Richardson, Anthony Quinn, Haile Selassie, Frank Sinatra, Ringo Starr, Mae West, Harold Wilson.