# Six-
## The Snake

Chinese Name: Shé
Direction: South-Southeast
Fixed Element: Fire
Stem: Negative
Western Sign: Taurus
Color: Light blue
Flower: Camellia
Fragrance: Musk
Tree: Palm
Birthstone: Opal
Lucky Number: 3
Years of the Snake: 1965, 1977, 198, 2001, 2013

蛇

## The Year of the Snake

This year appears tranquil on the surface, but in actuality many of the disasters and calamities whose seeds were sown during the excesses of the Year of the Dragon manifest themselves in the Year of the Snake. The Snake likes to resolve conflicts, and if no peaceful settlement can be reached, then the Snake will attack. (Japan's sneak attack on Pearl Harbor was in the Year of the Snake, and Admiral Yamamoto expressed his fear that they had "awakened a sleeping dragon.") It is, however, a most auspicious year for commerce, industry, science, technology, and the arts. Solutions and comprises are reached, with a great deal of thoughtful negotiation and mistrust. It is also a vigorous time for courtship, romance, and scandals of every sort. Music and theater flourish, and sophisticated elegance is the rule of the day. This is a year marked by unpredictability. The Snake appears to move slowly, but once roused he strikes like lightning.
# The Snake Personality

This is the most enigmatic and mystical sign of the Chinese zodiac, endowed with innate wisdom and a mysterious allure. It is said that the most beautiful women and powerful men are born under this sign. Both the Snake's thinking and emotions run very deep. In their relationships with others they can be possessive and demanding, and they will never forgive a promise broken or a wrong done. Once roused to anger their hatred can be vicious and unrelenting—and it is silent, cold, and deadly. The Sicilian adage, "Revenge is a dish best served cold," must have been coined by a Snake.Above all, the charismatic Snake has a profound sense of responsibility and enduring purpose. Like their cousin the Dragon, they are born to lead and soar to great heights.

Snakes are by nature skeptical and mistrusting, and inclined to be somewhat superstitious. Like the Dragon, theirs is a karmic sign, and it is their destiny to pay all dues and settle all scores before they leave this life. They can be deeply religious and even psychic or, on the other extreme, totally hedonistic and materialistic. Money comes easily to them, and they are rarely bothered by financial woes. Snakes can also be quite generous, but they can be ruthless in eliminating anyone who stands between them and their goals.

There is no anticipating a Snake's next move—they are constantly calculating and plotting. They are highly secretive and very careful about what they say. Shrewd and prudent, they are adept in business and financial transactions and can also make excellent politicians. They understand and desire power, and beneath their outward cloak of serenity are always alert and on guard. Their philosophical bent allows them a refined sense of humor as well as considerable grace under pressure. In times of adversity, they can be relied upon to remain calm and maintain their presence of mind. They deal with misfortune with a calm assurance and intrepidity. They are remarkably resilient. In the event of a catastrophe, they are able to shed their skins and reemerge with a new and even more resplendent one, almost as if by magic.Snakes of both sexes are characteristically blessed with beautiful complexions. Under their cool demeanors, they are high-strung, finely tuned individuals. As they keep their emotions inward and hidden, the tension they feel affects their digestive and nervous systems, and they can be prone to stomach ulcers and other digestive ailments.

The female Snake is more often than not a sleek, serene, and enticing beauty, sensuous, graceful, and languid in her movements and manner. She is confident, collected, and poised, and her effect can be quietly mesmerizing. She will love jewelry—as long as it is the real thing—and her tastes are sophisticated and singularly elegant. She is fully aware of her mysterious allure and aura of sexual intrigue. Equality of the sexes is not an issue with her. Hers is an ancient female power—the snake-goddess personified—and she has no need to compete with men when it is so easy to entice them into doing her bidding.

Like all Snakes, she admires the power and influence that come with money and will have high standards for a mate. If her husband has not yet attained her goals, she will dedicate herself to seeing that he does, working behind the scenes, dressing the part, playing the perfect hostess, offering shrewd advice, and exercising her hypnotic charm.

All Snakes are passionate lovers, with reputedly strong sexual appetites. In fact, they pursue all objects of their desire with the same covetous fervor. They often—especially those with an insatiable lust for power or fame—lead dangerous lives full of intrigue and excitement.
Snake children are reticent, pensive, intelligent, and alert. They know what they want and are very practical in establishing their goals. They are careful and attentive and know how to avoid trouble. Secretive and brooding, they hide their pain and are capable of bearing grudges for a long time. They are often misunderstood because, being Snakes, they are enigmas who refuse or fail to communicate successfully with those around them. However, they are charismatic, and other children will look to them for leadership. Gifted with a high IQ and a natural aptitude for learning, a Snake is able to discipline himself and has remarkable focus.

The Snake will make the best partnership with the stalwart and reliable ox, the audacious and colorful Rooster, and the illustrious and straightforward Dragon. Rat, Rabbit, Sheep, and Dog or another Snake will all make good secondary matches.

The Snake and the Boar are diametrically opposed to each other, and such a union is ill advised. Where the Snake is secretive, polished, sophisticated, and complex, the Boar is mundane, straightforward, and simplistic. These two will never understand each other, and their conflicts will be deep and long-lasting—they are natural enemies. The defiant and willful Tiger will clash with the Snake's secretive and discerning ways, and they will be mutually suspicious of each other. The wily Monkey will oppose the Snake with its own form of cunning, and the two are likely to engage in an ongoing cloak-and-dagger war, each trying to catch the other unaware. The Snake will experience cold and distant relations at best with the fickle, impulsive, and equally demanding Horse, whose capricious ways will offend the Snake's refined and subtle sensibilities. Snakes will find Horses loud, selfish, arrogant (which they do not find the Dragon, for all of its grandiose sounding off) and even stupid in their ways.
# The Five Types of Snake

## Metal Snake—1941, 2001

The most secretive and elusive of all the Snakes, mistrustful of others and gifted with a calculating intelligence and strong willpower. Metal makes them crave opulence and luxury, and they will be steadfast in their devotion to the acquisition of wealth and power. They move with great stealth, and are not above using underhanded means to subdue their opponents. They can be possessive and domineering, but also generous and cooperative.

## Water Snake—1953, 2013

A charismatic Snake with great mental abilities, insightfulness, powers of concentration, and business acumen. Shrewd, practical, and materialistic, but also well read and artistic, they are adroit at managing both people and finances. Calm and unperturbed on the surface, these Snakes' emotions run very deep; they have long memories and can harbor lifetime grievances.
## Wood Snake—1905, 1965, 2025

Wood combined with the Snake's fixed element of Fire will make these individuals shine like a flame, attracting rather than pursuing the people and objects they desire. Their tastes and habits will be expensive, and they will crave admiration and approval. Both emotional and financial security are important to them, and they will work hard to achieve lasting success. Their affections, also, are constant and enduring, although they will demand complete intellectual freedom. They have an almost prophetic understanding of the course of events and of their own time and place in history.

## Fire Snake—1917, 1977

Fire gives these individuals great charisma and energy, with an aura of confident leadership. They have a strong desire for fame, wealth, and power, and can be uncompromising and relentless in the pursuit of their goals, which tend to be very high. They are ardent and sensual and can be excessively jealous. They love and hate with the same intensity, and are suspicious by nature and often quick to judge and condemn.## Earth Snake—1929, 1989

Warm and spontaneous, Earth Snakes are principled and reliable and form slow and correct judgments. They rely on their own opinions and integrity and refuse to be intimidated by the crowd. Disarmingly graceful and charming, they will have many admirers and will be intensely loyal to their friends. They are hard-working, organized, and frugal with money, and know how to set their own limits and operate successfully within them.

## Influence of Time of Birth

**The Hours of the Rat—11 P.M. to 1 A.M.**

An affable and charming Snake, with the Rat's sentimentality and love of money, could be a real go-getter and hustler.

**The Hours of the Ox—1 A.M. to 3 A.M.**

A very formidable Snake—the Ox's stamina and stubborn willpower are concealed by the Snake's hypnotic charm and elusiveness.

**The Hours of the Tiger—3 A.M. to 5 A.M.**

A warm and versatile individual who is also hyper-suspicious.**The Hours of the Rabbit—5 A.M. to 7 A.M.**

A genial, debonair, well-mannered Snake, adept at making deals but a with poisonous bite concealed beneath a genteel exterior.

**The Hours of the Dragon—7 A.M. to 9 A.M.**

Here wisdom and power come together—the Snake will commit totally to whatever cause he or she adopts.

**The Hours of the Snake—9 A.M. to 11 A.M.**

An elusive yet enchanting creature of great enigma and intrigue—possessive and relentless—once this Snake bites onto something it will never let go.

**The Hours of the Horse—11 A.M. to 1 P.M.**

This combination makes for a humorous, charming, and highly amorous individual.

**The Hours of the Sheep—1 P.M. to 3 P.M.**

An artistic Snake with expensive tastes; capable of great cunning beneath a gentle and friendly demeanor.

**The Hours of the Monkey—3 P.M. to 5 P.M.**

Guile, wisdom, glamour, charm, and wit are combined in an individual who is virtually impossible to resist.**The Hours of the Rooster—5 P.M. to 7 P.M.**
A plumed serpent, knowledgeable and persistent, with an obsessive desire for power beneath those colorful feathers.

**The Hours of the Dog—7 P.M. to 9 P.M.**
Possibly a slightly less secretive and forthright Snake, with the Dog's strong moral sense.

**The Hours of the Boar—9 P.M. to 11 P.M.**
A hedonistic and sensual bon vivant who could be something of a good-willed Dionysus, but still shrewd when dealing with others.

# The Snake's Prospects in Coming Years

## The Year of the Dragon—2000
A difficult year, in which the Snake will be the subject of vicious gossip from jealous associates. However the troubles will be over by summer, and with winter comes good news.

## The Year of the Snake—2001
Problems in romance and business are foreseen along with the possibility of a minor bodily injury. The Snake's achievements may not match their expectations, and they must remain calm to avoid trouble.## The Year of the Horse—2002
An energetic year marked by success, although the Snake's health may be affected by problems and worries. These troubles, though, are only temporary.

## The Year of the Sheep—2003
Life will be calm and leisurely, with no great gains or losses to speak of. There is the possibility of sad news at home.

## The Year of the Monkey—2004
A good year. The snakes will find help where he or she needs it, although some adverse conditions and conflicts still cause anxiety.

## The Year of the Rooster—2005
A most auspicious year, in which fantastic achievements and advances can be foreseen.

## The Year of the Dog—2006
Opportunities present themselves and new ideas meet with approval and support, although the Snake may experience some minor health problems and could be the victim of a robbery.

## The Year of the Boar—2007
The Snake may experience some legal problems or the separation from a close friend or lover. Financial losses could stem from poor judgment.## The Year of the Rat—2008
An active and dramatic year for the Snake—both good and bad. Financial gains will outweigh losses, and new opportunities will present themselves.

## The Year of the Ox—2009
Snakes will face obstacles and challenges to their decisions this year, although things will proceed moderately well if they quell their obstinacy.

## The Year of the Tiger—2010
A year marked by many irritations, in which a Snake may be pulled into conflicts of his or her own making. The Snake must avoid senseless acts of revenge and be open to help from others.

## The Year of the Rabbit—2011
A busy and moderately happy year. Numerous commitments keep the Snake occupied, and money comes and goes in equal amounts.

## Some Famous Snakes
Burt Bacharach, Johannes Brahms, Julie Christie, Claudette Colbert, Indira Gandhi, Greta Garbo, J. Paul Getty, Gong Li, Audrey Hepburn, Howard Hughes, Grace Kelly, John F.

Kennedy, Carole King, Abraham Lincoln, Mao Tse-tung, Ferdinand Marcos, Ann Margaret, Dean Martin, Sarah Miles, Robert Mitchum, Gamal Abdel Nassar, Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis, Pablo Picasso, Edgar Allan Poe, Jean-Paul Sartre, Franz Schubert, Barbet Schroeder, Dalton Trumbo.