Horses love action and fanfare. Although they lack both stability and perseverance, they are quick-witted and quick to act, agile in both mind and body, and as such are masters of improvisation and can juggle several acts at once while holding their own in all of them. Resentful of any limitations imposed on their freedom and nonconformists at heart, Horses will keep odd and scattered hours. When inspired, they can work for days without sleeping. They often find it hard to calm down, and the more agitated types may suffer from bouts of insomnia.

Horses cannot stand any kind of restraint, and this includes their emotions. They need to express themselves, and if forced or obliged to exercise self-inhibition will openly rebel.

Horse are not known for their constancy and perseverance. They can be extremely fickle. They fall easily in and out of love, and will most likely have many amorous liaisons before, and if, they settle down. Nonetheless, the animated, passionate, and impetuous Horse is reputed to be very susceptible to the perils of romance, and they can easily lose everything once they fall madly in love and are likely to have many affairs or marriages that end unhappily.

The female Horse will tend to take her romantic involvements lightly. Like her male counterpart, she loves to roam freely across the wide, open plain. She will either be the more placid mare or the mane-tossing nostrils-flaring firebrand, or a combination of both, but in all three cases she will be pert, saucy, occasionally skittish, and extremely nimble both physically and mentally. She requires expert handling. Her home is merely a way station where she can replenish herself before taking off again. And when she gallops away do not chase after her—that will only drive her further afield. If she is truly your Horse, she will come back to you in good time, most likely when you least expect it.

It is believed that a Horse born in the summer will lead a better life than one born in the winter. The best and most fruitful stage in the Horse's life comes in middle age, when they are mature and experienced enough to accept the shackles of responsibility. Horses of both sexes are prone to acquire wealth but not security, due to their peripatetic natures, and their offspring will most likely not benefit directly from any of the Horse's achievements.

The Chinese believe that the unbridled passions of the Horse will be greatly increased when he or she is born in the year of the Fire Horse. (The last Fire Horse year was 1966, and the next will be in 2026.) According to legend, the Fire Horse wreaks havoc wherever it goes, and many a good man has been ruined by the insatiable and uncontrolled passions of a woman born in this year. The male Fire Horse, however, is considered more fortunate, as his drive and energy may bring him distinction and acclaim.The Horse will make the best partnerships with the Tiger, Dog, and Sheep. Dragon, Snake, Monkey, Rabbit, Boar, Rooster, or another Horse all make good secondary matches. Horses should avoid a relationship with the Rat, who will be highly critical of their mercurial ways, and they could come into direct conflict with the stubborn and unyielding Ox, who will demand a consistency the Horse is incapable of providing.

Horse children are passionate, boisterous, mercurial, and highly energetic. They have a great love of the outdoors and require plenty of exercise, and are inclined to roam far afield, although they will always be able to find their way home, especially at mealtimes. Their restless and curious natures will keep them constantly occupied, and they will rebel against any restrictions that are placed upon them. With their adventurous spirits, they are also inclined to get themselves into dangerous situations. Many Horse children are born left-handed. They are fast learners and like to get things done quickly. They also tend to be disobedient and willfully stubborn. Horse children require discipline to learn to bridle their tempers and impulsiveness.

# The Five Types of Horses

## The Metal Horse—1930, 1990

A bold, unruly, engaging, and impetuous Horse who is highly amorous and very attractive to the opposite sex (Sean Connery is a Metal Horse). They have fine minds and keen intuition and can be highly productive. They have great powers of recuperation and an insatiable hunger for new experiences and challenges. They are also more self-centered and stubborn than Horses of other elements. When negative, they can have an irrational need for freedom and will shun close relationships out of fear of being entangled or restricted.## The Water Horse-1942, 2002

These highly nomadic individuals are cheerful, elegant, and gifted with fine business acumen. They are concerned with their own well-being and comfort, but are at the same time highly adaptable and adjust easily to change. They are good communicators and are gifted with a wonderful sense of humor. They can also be extremely fickle, changing their minds often. They are more restless than other Horses, and prone to travel and change residences frequently. When negative, they can be highly pretentious and inconsistent and demonstrate an appalling lack of consideration for others.

## The Wood Horse-1954, 2014

These are more reasonable and less impatient Horses who are able to discipline their minds and think systematically. They will have happy dispositions and be highly gregarious and good conversationalists. Their interests are many and varied. They are athletic and hard-working. Progressive and unsentimental, they can easily throw out the old in order to welcome the new.
## The Fire Horse—1906, 1966, 2026

The Horse's fixed element is Fire, so this is a double Fire sign, these individuals are extremely passionate, flamboyant, hot-blooded, and excitable. They have superb intellects and great personal magnetism, and rely on sheer willpower to get what they want. They are inconsistent and easily bored and require a great deal of variety in their lives. They have great flair and charm, but their many-faceted personalities along with their profusion of thoughts and feelings can make them extremely volatile. They can be skillful negotiators and problem solvers, although they are capable of being very argumentative.

## The Earth Horse—1918, 1978, 2038

These Horses are slower and precise, prone to be more logical and less decisive, but also have happy and congenial dispositions. Earth makes them less abrupt and restless, able to consider all sides of a question before they act. They have good noses for investments and are more than able to bring dying businesses back to life. Their innate equine capriciousness can manifest itself over trivial things, and they can have trouble making up their minds—they can drive a waiter in a restaurant mad.## Influence of Time of Birth

**The Hours of the Rat—11 P.M. to 1 A.M.**

An affectionate and companionable Horse, imbued with the Rat's talkative charm and sentimentalism, who is very good at acquiring and dealing with money.

**The Hours of the Ox—1 A.M. to 3 A.M.**

A more serious, reliable, and consistent Horse, who is less ruled by his or her passions and not so inclined to fall deliriously in love on the spur of the moment.

**The Hours of the Tiger—3 A.M. to 5 A.M.**

Alacrity and skill are expertly combined with derring-do. The Tiger is fearless although suspicious, and the Horse relies on its uncanny intuition and ability to improvise.

**The Hours of the Rabbit—5 A.M. to 7 A.M.**

A moderate, genteel, and debonair Horse.

**The Hours of the Dragon—7 A.M. to 9 A.M.**

A galloping stallion who can't stop running. A natural-born winner with a volatile temper and a tendency to overreact to everything.**The Hours of the Snake—9 a.m. to 11 a.m.**

The Snake lends wisdom and discernment to the Horse, making it move more slowly but with a greater assurance of success.

**The Hours of the Horse—11 a.m. to 1 p.m.**

A highly energetic but graceful animal but with a skittish nature, possibly self-centered, conceited, and capricious.

**The Hours of the Sheep—1 p.m. to 3 p.m.**

The Sheep tames the Horse, making it a little more considerate and harmonious without quelling its fire.

**The Hours of the Monkey—3 p.m. to 5 p.m.**

A powerful combination of agility, swiftness, and guile. Fast movers and fast talkers, this Horse will be difficult to catch or pin down.

**The Hours of the Rooster—5 p.m. to 7 p.m.**

A highly perceptive Horse with a radiant disposition, blessed by the Rooster's dauntless outlook on the life.

**The Hours of the Dog—7 p.m. to 9 p.m.**

A more reliable, faithful, and honest Horse, who is at the same time prone to be impatient, critical, and easily agitated.**The Hours of the Boar—9 P.M. to 11 P.M.**

The Boar makes the Horse more steadfast and cooperative and, at times, perhaps a little too easygoing and complacent.

# The Horse's Prospects in Coming Years

## The Year of the Dragon—2000

An unsteady and unsettling time, in which Horses are beset by worries that try their patience and cause their health to suffer. Problems, though, are not as bad as they at first seem, and the damage is not nearly as great as expected.

## The Year of the Snake—2001

The Horse will experience difficulties with associates and friends, while delays are caused by unforeseen obstacles.

## The Year of the Horse—2002

A prosperous year, in which plans are easily realized and recognition and advancement bring much happiness. However, Horses must be careful, as they are susceptible to contagious diseases.

## The Year of the Sheep—2003

A moderate year with no serious problems but with the possibility of a change of residence or a long journey.## The Year of the Monkey—2004

A lucky year marked by unexpected gains. Horses must be wary of freak accidents and there could be some sad news, but nothing that will affect them personally.

## The Year of the Rooster—2005

Good news at home, but minor problems at work could hamper progress. They could tend to be easily upset and should try to remain calm.

## The Year of the Dog—2006

A good year for Horses in academic or career terms, although they may face a lawsuit or suffer from the departure of a loved one.

## The Year of the Boar—2007

Horses could succeed academically or acquire a much sought-after job or position. A loved one may depart, or a lawsuit involving the family may arise.

## The Year of the Rat—2008

A difficult year marked by money troubles and unhappy romantic entanglements. Horses must be careful to avoid confrontations, especially with the law, and refrain from lending or borrowing money.## The Year of the Ox—2009

Horses will have to work hard this year to achieve their goals, but they will be in control and some financial gains are foreseen.

## The Year of the Tiger—2010

Horses will entertain a lot and accrue additional expenses. Disputes or severed relationships are possible as a result of losing their tempers.

## The Year of the Rabbit—2011

This is a lucky year financially, and Horses can expect good news or new members added to their families. They will encounter few problems or obstacles.

## Some Famous Horses

Neil Armstrong, Pearl Bailey, Ellen Barkin, Ingmar Bergman, Leonard Bernstein, Leonid Brezhnev, Michael Crichton, Sean Connery, James Dean, Lesley-Anne Down, Robert Duvall, Clint Eastwood, Robert Evans, Chris Evert, Harrison Ford, Jerry Goldsmith, Billy Graham, Ulysses S. Grant, Gene Hackman, Rita Hayworth, Patty Hearst, Werner Herzog, William Holden, John Huston, James Earl Jones, Genghis Khan, Paul McCartney, Agnes Moorehead, Alberto Moravia, Otto Preminger, Rembrandt, Theodore Roosevelt, Roberto Rosselini, Anwar Sadat, Martin Scorsese, Sterling Silliphant, Aleksandr Solzhenistyn, Robert Stack, Joseph von Sternberg, Barbra Streisand, Raquel Welch, Anna-May Wong, Vivien Wu.# Seven-
## The Horse

Chinese Name: Ma
Direction: South
Fixed Element: Fire
Stem: Positive
Western Sign: Gemini
Color: Black
Flower: Narcissus
Fragrance: Wildflowers
Tree: White birch
Birthstone: Topaz
Lucky number: 8
Years of the Horse: 1954, 1966, 1978, 1990, 2002, 2014

馬

## The Year of the Horse

A high-spirited, hectic, and adventurous year. An exhilarating time of reckless and impulsive action and risk-taking. This year people are confident, carefree, whimsical, capricious, and romantic, and everything proceeds at an energetic if not frenzied pace. Things are done on the spur of the moment. Although charged and exciting, energies are also taxed and nerves frayed by the ceaseless momentum and unpredictable shifts in the wind. Good humor and optimism, however, prevail. Old boundaries are broken, and the world's economy could experience a boom period. This is an excellent time to launch new ventures and boldly go where you have never gone before.

The film industry is said to be ruled by the Horse, and when you look at the list of famous Horses you will be surprised to see how many are outstanding successes in the movie business.
## The Horse Personality

Those born in the Year of the Horse are energetic, unpredictable, independent, athletic, and warmly appealing. They exude a raw animal sex appeal rather than classical good looks. Impetuous and self-reliant, they are by nature restless adventurers, and seem to be always on the move. Open-minded and flexible, they can appraise a situation astutely and are expert manipulators, skillful in business as well as in love, and adept at handling money. They are extremely self-centered and can have volatile tempers; although they may forget their own explosive outbursts, others do not, for which Horses can lose respect and credibility. They can be particularly petty, petulant, and inconsiderate in satisfying their own caprices and can be forgetful and absentminded.