# Eight-
# The Sheep

Chinese Name: Yang
Direction: South-Southwest
Fixed Element: Fire
Stem: Negative
Western Sign: Cancer
Color: Light green
Flower: Narcissus
Fragrance: Apple blossom
Tree: Dogwood
Birthstone: Sapphire
Lucky Number: 12
Years of the Sheep: 1955, 1967, 1979, 1991, 2003, 2015

羊

# The Year of the Sheep

A calm year, in which things progress slowly but steadily. The Sheep's love of harmony promotes peaceful coexistence. During this year, people will be more sentimental, emotional, and caring toward family and loved ones. Creative ventures and the arts will flourish under the Sheep's influence. On the other hand, people can become oversensitive and nervous about minor problems and easily discouraged and hypercritical.## The Sheep Personality

The Sheep is nature's special child, upon whom fortune smiles, but it is also a grazing creature very much in need of a watchful and protective shepherd. The Sheep is the most feminine sign of the Chinese zodiac, and is known for its gentle and compassionate ways. Sheep are extremely sympathetic and understanding, and generous with their time and money. Unless influenced by a more aggressive animal ruling the time of birth, they are likely to be mild-mannered and even shy. But their mettle is not to be underestimated. Beneath that subdued exterior lies an inner determination and quiet resolve, and they can respond passionately and firmly when threatened or are bent on achieving some goal. At their positive best, they are righteous, sincere, artistic, fashionable, and highly creative. At their worst, they can be intensely emotional and darkly pessimistic.

The Chinese believe that Sheep are blessed by good fortune because of their love of peace, innate kindness, and purity of heart. Theirs is the eighth sign, the number of prosperity and comfort in Chinese numerology. Thus Sheep will always have the three essentials in life—food, clothing, and shelter—and they will always find people to assist them. Others care for them a great deal, and they have fantastic luck. Things simply seem to come to them—inheritances from relatives, expensive gifts from admirers, the patronage and support of rich and powerful people. Like their friend the Rabbit, they know how to ingratiate themselves to people and are masters of the soft sell. They have great passive endurance and are always able to obtain what they want without force. They also know how to placate or evade their enemies or rally others to come to their defense.
In spite of all their luck, Sheep are fundamentally worrying pessimists liable to predict the worst. Misfortune can affect them deeply. They also find it very hard to deny themselves anything and tend to live beyond their means and have difficulty handling finances. They have expensive tastes and an inclination to overspend. They can be vague and indecisive to avoid conflict, and may be criticized for failing to take a firm stand. Their oblique approach and indirect speech can be infuriating, and they are prone to self-pity and be highly theatrical about their woes. Their moods are many and varied, and they can find it impossible to be objective.

Sheep crave love, attention, and approval. Appreciation of their talents will make them blossom spectacularly, and they can be highly creative. They understand and appreciate beauty and have discriminating tastes and a discerning eye.
The female Sheep is extremely feminine and decidedly coquettish—a real damsel or Southern belle—and is very concerned with both her costuming and personal hygiene. She is the mistress of feminine persuasion, subtly twisting arms in the most engaging, flirtatious, and cajoling manner while feigning fragility and vulnerability. She will openly show her favoritism to those she deems as special and simply ignore the unworthy or unacceptable.

Sheep need strong and loyal partners to support them. The optimistic Tiger, Horse, and Boar will readily complement them and make the best unions. Rabbit, Dragon, Snake, Rooster, or another Sheep will make good secondary matches. The Sheep will be able to find harmony with any of them.

The Rat will disapprove of the Sheep's extravagant ways and lack of self-denial, and the Sheep will not find any sympathy from the stern and unyielding Ox or the practical, no-nonsense Dog.

Sheep children are lovable little lambs who will be thoroughly petted and spoiled. Highly sensitive, they show artistic inclinations at an early age and are lovers of beauty, music, and poetry. They can be extremely dependent and needful, and find it hard to do anything for or by themselves. They hate being criticized or teased, and require loads of sympathy and understanding when their feelings are hurt. They can withdraw into a magical world of their own to insulate themselves from the cruelties of the world around them, and can harbor morbid fears that at times can even make them ill. At school or at play they seek out more dominant children to protect them. Home, security, and comfort are very important to them. They will also be extremely kind and compassionate about the suffering of others, including animals, and their affections and generosity are boundless to those they love.
# The Five Types of Sheep

## Metal Sheep—1931, 1991

These Sheep have great faith in their own abilities and a high degree of self-worth that enables them to put up a brave front to mask their acute sensitivity and vulnerable ego. They seek beauty in all its forms and are very concerned with balance and harmony in their daily lives. Domestic and financial security are extremely important to them. They can find their emotions hard to contain, and are capable of being possessive, jealous, and overly protective of those they love.

## Water Sheep—1943, 2003

These very appealing and popular Sheep have many supporters and admirers; they are also innately opportunistic. They seek out people they can depend on and often take the path of least resistance. Meek and impressionable, they will abide by the majority rule or those who have a powerful influence over them.

They mix well with people and readily absorb the ideas of others, but are fearful of change and prefer to cling to what they know. They have a tendency to feel rejected and persecuted when things do not go their way.## Wood Sheep—1955, 2015

Leisurely, good humored, thoughtful, and compassionate Sheep with high moral principles who can be overwhelmed by the misfortunes of others. As a result, they are inclined to the performance of good deeds and acts of kindness. They have complete trust in those they believe in, are sentimental, and strive to please. Money seems to always come to them from unexpected sources. They capitulate too easily when challenged, in the name of keeping the peace.

## Fire Sheep—1907, 1967, 2027

These energetic and aggressive Sheep can be forthright and outspoken when challenged or offended. They are more courageous than most Sheep about following their hunches, and will take the initiative. They have an alluring personal grace and a great ability to dramatize rather than invent, making them expert peddlers of ideas—such as movie producers and agents—emphasizing strong points and glossing over weaknesses. Their emotionalism, though, can make them appear irrational. They like to entertain lavishly and can overextend their finances. When negative, they can succumb to wishful thinking and grandiose dreams without acknowledging the benefits they have already accumulated.## Earth Sheep—1919, 1979

These optimistic and self-reliant Sheep like to maintain a degree of independence in spite of their strong emotional attachments. Earth makes them conservative, cautious, responsible, and hard-working, although, as Sheep, they will still find it difficult to deny themselves the luxuries they regard as bare necessities. They will go out of their way to help friends in need and can become overly defensive and even neurotic when criticized.

## Influence of Time of Birth

**The Hours of the Rat—11 P.M. to 1 A.M.**

A crafty opportunist with an emotional and self-indulgent disposition, while at the same time steady and dependable.

**The Hours of the Ox—1 A.M. to 3 A.M.**

A reliable and conservative Sheep imbued with some of the Ox's sturdiness and authority.

**The Hours of the Tiger—3 A.M. to 5 A.M.**

A temperamental and volatile Sheep, the Tiger's impetuosity combines with the Sheep's fanciful and ingratiating ways.**The Hours of the Rabbit—5 A.M. to 7 A.M.**

An unobtrusive but cunning Sheep. He or she will feign generosity and concern, but do not count on them for anything that involves personal sacrifice or inconvenience.

**The Hours of the Dragon—7 A.M. to 9 A.M.**

These determined Sheep are driven by the courage of their convictions and have a great need for adulation and respect.

**The Hours of the Snake—9 A.M. to 11 A.M.**

Self-assured, competent, secretive, and clear-headed Sheep who can make up their own minds and keep their thoughts and feelings to themselves.

**The Hours of the Horse—11 A.M. to 1 P.M.**

An energetic and flamboyant Sheep, with a taste for the good life, who will make money in order to spend it.

**The Hours of the Monkey—3 P.M. to 5 P.M.**

A self-assured Sheep who is more likely to take decisive action, and who has the Monkey's humorous and positive outlook.

**The Hours of the Rooster—5 P.M. to 7 P.M.**

Sheep brimming with ideas that never materialize who need others to put their talents to use.**The Hours of the Dog—7 P.M. to 9 P.M.**
A more rational and sensible Sheep who is able to cope with reality and less inclined to self-pity or moroseness.

**The Hours of the Boar—9 P.M. to 11 P.M.**
Sympathetic Sheep who are always there when you need them and expect the same in return.

# The Sheep's Prospects in Coming Years

## The Year of the Dragon—2000
Although Sheep are involved in numerous disputes, they face no major battles or disasters and will emerge relatively unscathed.

## The Year of the Snake—2001
A year in which Sheep attain prestige and popularity. They are likely to travel and see their finances increase, although some bad news may temporarily delay their progress.

## The Year of the Horse—2002
A prosperous year, with no major problems at home or at work. Sheep may suffer from a minor illness or infection.## The Year of the Sheep-2003

Surprisingly enough, this is not a particularly good year. Problems and complications mire the Sheep's plans and deplete their resources. A year to be practical and relinquish any great expectations.

## The Year of the Monkey-2004

A busy and rewarding year of recognition, promotion, and personal fulfillment.

## The Year of the Rooster-2005

A year marked by entertaining and expenses that tax the Sheep's bank account and cause domestic disputes and conflict. A time to be careful with finances.

## The Year of the Dog-2006

A distressing time, in which Sheep have to cope with debts and romantic or family troubles. They should try to be optimistic and conservative in their behavior.

## The Year of the Boar-2007

A year of recovery after the attacks and wounds of the Dog year. The Sheep's situation may still be somewhat tenuous or unstable. They will, however, gain access to funds that were previously withheld or unattainable.## The Year of the Rat—2008
A very good year, in which gains are foreseen from unlikely sources such as gambling. Success in business and romance.

## The Year of the Ox—2009
A difficult year, marked by financial troubles, quarrels, and misunderstandings.

## The Year of the Tiger—2010
Sheep will have to work hard this year to keep up with the competition. New and beneficial contacts are indicated, along with some trouble with relatives.

## The Year of the Rabbit—2011
Sheep make gains financially and at work but may experience an upheaval at home; health problems may be caused by accidental injuries. Overall gains outweigh losses.

## Some Famous Sheep
Isabelle Adjani, Muhammad Ali, Miguel de Cervantes, Robert DeNiro, John Denver, Dino De Laurentiis, Catherine Deneuve, Angie Dickinson, Bobby Fisher, Jennifer Jones, Michelangelo, James Michener, Rita Moreno, Leonard Nimoy, Sir Laurence Olivier, Barbara Stanwyck, Rudolph Valentino, George Wallace, Andy Warhol, John Wayne.