# Nine
## The Monkey

Chinese Name: Hóu
Direction: West-Southwest
Fixed Element: Metal
Stem: Positive
Western Sign: Leo
Color: Yellow
Flower: Dandelion
Fragrance: Jasmine
Tree: Sycamore
Birthstone: Tiger eye
Lucky Number: 10
Years of the Monkey: 1956, 1968, 1980, 1992, 2004, 2016

猴

## The Year of the Monkey

An extremely progressive and optimistic year of gambling, improvisation, innovation, and invention, in which nothing seems impossible. "The game's afoot!" is the enthusiastic cry that resounds throughout the year. Politics, diplomacy, business, and finance are all engaged in high-stakes games of chance in which the players try to outsmart and outbluff each other. With all the excitement and activity, it will be hard to know who is winning. Stocks will soar in a frenzy of speculation and competition, and those who are quick and alert are bound to reap huge dividends. This is not a year for the timid or slow-witted, as the shrewd and cunningly playful Trickmaster Monkey sees to it that the winners find themselves laughing all the way to the bank.## The Monkey Personality

In the popular Chinese classic, *Journey to the West*, Sun Hóu-Tzu, the Monkey King, represents human failings that can be redeemed. The Monkey is a creature gifted with human intelligence along with man's capacity for trickery and deceit.

Monkeys are warm, buoyant, and spontaneous, often with radiant smiles and humorous and mischievous twinkles in their eyes. You cannot help but be delighted by their company, and they are expert at making themselves likable and indispensable. They are capable of great concentration and hard work, and with their superb intelligence, insightfulness, and remarkable skills they are certainly a great asset when they are on your side.

The Monkey's inimitable guile and charm are legendary in Chinese folklore. This is the sign not only of the Trickster and improviser, but of the motivator and inventor. With their keen insight, Monkeys make excellent critics with their keen insight. They are clever, quick-witted, innovative, highly flexible, and fast learners, able to readily absorb information and solve complex problems with ease. They can be excellent linguists. They have a wry sense of humor and a keen sense of life's ironies and contradictions.
Monkeys have lively personalities and great *joie de vivre*. They delight not only in the world around them, but unabashedly in their own cleverness and accomplishments, and it is certainly difficult to begrudge them their childlike joy in themselves. Instinctively brilliant strategists who are supremely confident in their abilities, they are undaunted by challenge—in fact they delight in it—and are liable to be successful at whatever they undertake. They are highly competitive and extremely good at hiding their feelings and planning their moves, able to outmaneuver their opponents with sure-footed grace and finesse. They rely on skill and mental agility rather than on brute strength. Perhaps the Greek hero Odysseus, renowned for his cunning, was a Monkey. In their pursuit of money, success, and power, their prowess is unmatchable, and they are forever alert to every opportunity, which they'll instantly recognize instantly no matter how well it is hidden.

Never lie to a Monkey. Master charlatans themselves, they will see through you straight away. Oddly enough, they hold truth and objectivity in high regard. Monkeys are immensely sociable creatures, with an unshakable belief in themselves, and they will take great care to display good manners, politeness, and quiet dignity in order to ingratiate themselves to those around them. When negative, they can be extremely vain, selfish, and egotistical, with too high an opinion of themselves, utterly self-absorbed, and totally convinced that they are smarter and wiser than everybody else. They can be actually too smart for their own good. They do not have enough respect for others, nor do they value their conquests. Because everything appears to come to Monkeys easily and effortlessly, they can have an inflated sense of their own entitlement, take people for granted, and lose interest quickly. They can also be mercenary in their outlook and behavior and are masters of revenge.

Their wily ways and clever personalities can make others suspect them and not completely trust them, and they are often misjudged or falsely accused.

Admonitions, accusations, reprimands, and insults are all simply water off a duck's back to the Monkey. They will either ignore them or find them highly amusing, the product of others' foibles, lack of insight, or spiteful jealousy of their talents and well-deserved good fortune. This does not mean that they refuse to accept criticism. Once they've had time to think about it they will do their best to rectify the situation—only don't ask them to lose face by admitting to any of it. Monkeys are always striving to improve themselves, and if things are bad they know that they can always make them better. They do have consciences and can be hit with sudden bouts of charity and generosity in the name of atonement.Monkeys are intellectuals with acute memories and insatiable curiosity. No problem is too great for them, and if no solution is readily apparent, they will invent one. If that doesn't work, they will simply move on. Their genius is not only inventive but practical, and you won't find them wasting their time on losing propositions or in futile struggles. They are at heart realists and masters of self-preservation, who will not hesitate to take the easiest way out of an unfavorable situation. When cornered or trapped, they resort to unscrupulous means to escape. 

Though they by no means lack credibility, one of the Monkey's main shortcomings is that they can yield too easily to temptation while devising means and inventing arguments to justify their actions.

The female Monkey is often a lively, stimulating, and captivating beauty who is a fashionable dresser and quite vain about her hair. She is cheerful, self-assured, efficient, resourceful, and independent, always capable of taking the initiative and acting on her own behalf. She is highly observant and calculating, and can be quite the snoop but is very guarded about her own personal affairs. You won't find her giving information away for free. She is very competitive and driven by incentives, and will work hard when she sees reason enough to do so. The Monkey woman often has very sensitive skin, and she can bruise easily or can break out in a rash when she uses too much makeup. She chooses her words carefully and is very adept at getting her way. She is a superb judge of character, and can be quite snobbish and critical.The Monkey will make the best of all possible unions with the Dragon. The Dragon will be drawn to the Monkey's sparkle and superior wit, while the Monkey will be attracted to the Dragon's majesty and ambition. These two will never be bored with each other, and there will be mutual love and respect. The Rat likewise will seek out the Monkey for its ingenuity, and the two will share a strong affinity. Ox, Rabbit, Horse, Sheep, Rooster, Dog, and Boar will all make good secondary matches. Two Monkeys could get along fairly well if they are not too envious and competitive with each other and can learn to work together.

The Tiger and the Monkey will experience severe clashes of personality, and the Snake, with its own brand of wisdom, will be forever suspicious of the Monkey.

Monkey children are jovial, mischievous, curious, and very competitive. There are constantly driven to improve themselves, and pride themselves on their ability to acquire knowledge and learn new skills. They keep themselves busy with countless activities, and can take on several subjects at once and master them all. Ambitious and conniving, they have a selfish streak. Never content with what they have, they will regard the possessions of others with a covetous eye, while at the same time refusing to share what is theirs. When they do share, they carefully weigh what they are getting back in return. They are oblivious to any rules or restrictions placed upon them, but it is virtually impossible to be angry for very long with these clever, charming, resourceful, and bright-eyed little imps.
# The Five Types of Monkeys

## Metal Monkey—1920, 1980

These Monkeys are very strong-willed, constant, and independent, and are driven by their need for financial security. Hardworking and very practical, they will prefer to run their own businesses, hold onto their savings, and make wise investments. They have lively dispositions and passionate and warm natures, and are ardent and demonstrative in love. Positive and very convincing, they can sell themselves to almost anyone. When negative, they can be exceedingly vain, proud, and self-centered.

## Water Monkey—1932, 1992

Water imbues these Monkeys with a greater sense of purpose and cooperation, and they are able to motivate others with their flair and originality. Both proficient and patient in the pursuit of their goals, they understand the art of compromise and know how to work around obstacles rather than waste time and energy trying to overcome them. They are always able to present things in the best possible light, and as a result their ideas meet with little resistance. They have secretive but kind natures, but are also likely to be more easily offended than Monkeys of other elements. When negative, they can be indecisive, evasive, and erratic.## Wood Monkey—1994, 2004

These are restless Monkeys with pioneering spirits, who are always on the lookout for greener pastures. They leap at new challenges and do not take setbacks lightly. They maintain high standards and are constantly searching for answers and striving to elevate themselves above their present situations. They are highly intuitive and keenly aware of everything that is going on around them, with uncanny ability to foresee the course events. Ordered and resourceful, they are rarely given to exaggeration or speculation.

## Fire Monkey—1956, 2016

These are the most forceful of all the Monkeys. Self-assured and determined, Fire Monkeys are expressive and truthful with their emotions and have a keen interest in the opposite sex. They have great vitality and fertile imaginations. They are ultra-competitive and very ambitious and will strive to be the top in their professions. They can also be exceedingly jealous and suspicious that others are deceiving them. They are lucky in speculative ventures and relish power and control. When negative, they can be stubborn, opinionated, and very argumentative.## Earth Monkey—1908, 1968, 2028

A reliable Monkey with a warm but calm and collected nature. Earth Monkeys value their integrity and are honest and straightforward. They are likely to be well-read intellectuals or academically inclined. They are genuinely kind and loving to those they care for and given to performing selfless acts of charity. They are conscientious and capable of achieving distinction as a result of their thoroughness and devotion to duty.

## Influence of Time of Birth

**The Hours of the Rat—11 P.M. to 1 A.M.**

This effervescent and charming Monkey savors life's cornucopia while hanging on to his or her money.

**The Hours of the Ox—1 A.M. to 3 A.M.**

A more rigid and straight-laced Monkey who is less inclined to trickery and cajolery.

**The Hours of the Tiger—3 A.M. to 5 A.M.**

An exuberant, self-confident, and impulsive Monkey who is wary of others and unwilling to take advice or accept defeat.**The Hours of the Rabbit—5 A.M. to 7 A.M.**

A less mischievous and far more cautious and restrained type of Monkey, who is highly intuitive in dealing with and assessing others, often uncannily so.

**The Hours of the Dragon—7 A.M. to 9 A.M.**

Highly ambitious and driven, this Monkey takes on more than he or she can handle.

**The Hours of the Snake—9 A.M. to 11 A.M.**

An elusive and secretive Monkey who is a master escape artist, gifted with a penetrating intellect and almost psychic powers.

**The Hours of the Horse—11 A.M. to 1 P.M.**

This highly capricious individual lacks perseverance and trustworthiness and plays entirely by his or her own rules.

**The Hours of the Sheep—1 P.M. to 3 P.M.**

A romantic dreamer with an acquiescent nature, but also conniving and opportunistic.

**The Hours of the Monkey—3 P.M. to 5 P.M.**

The "double" or "pure" Monkey will be supremely optimistic, charming, convivial and very quick on his or her feet. The ultimate Tricksters, they can get away with murder.**The Hours of the Rooster—5 P.M. to 7 P.M.**

This adventurous, colorful, and unconventional individual is quite capable of realizing high aspirations.

**The Hours of the Dog—7 P.M. to 9 P.M.**

A Monkey who is emotionally detached, but with a wry and satirical sense of humor coupled with a strong sense of reality.

**The Hours of the Boar—9 P.M. to 11 P.M.**

This far less secretive or deceitful Monkey can be relied on to keep his or her word and uphold their end of the deal.

# The Monkey's Prospects in Coming Years

## The Year of the Dragon—2000

Troubles and unsettled differences could be a source of distraction this year. Monkeys may have to spend their own money to implement their plans. Gains are made in knowledge or technical skills that can be put to later use.

## The Year of the Snake—2001

Monkeys receive assistance and support from friends and superiors. Good times are indicated, although there could be some domestic disputes. Monkeys should avoid confrontations at all costs.## The Year of the Horse—2002

Monkeys are beset by frustrations and worries this year, but their problems will work themselves out if they are acquiescent and remain calm and lower their expectations.

## The Year of the Sheep—2003

A busy year in which money is easily made, although Monkeys are faced with unforeseen expenses. They will benefit from meeting new and powerful people and will have to travel or entertain more than usual. Some minor illness or domestic unhappiness is indicated.

## The Year of the Monkey—2004

An excellent year, in which Monkeys will make fantastic progress. Achievement, recognition, and happiness are all indicated. With all this excitement and optimism, Monkeys must be careful not to overexert themselves.

## The Year of the Rooster—2005

A stable and moderate year, in which Monkeys will have the resources they need to push their plans through. Home life could be neglected due to too many commitments, and Monkeys must be careful not to overextend themselves or underestimate the opposition.## The Year of the Dog—2006

A difficult year, marked by disappointments. People break their promises and plans go askew. Monkey could suffer losses in their investments and should not lend money.

## The Year of the Boar—2007

Monkeys will be faced with business disputes and financial or legal troubles. Problems will be solved but only after much compromising. Monkeys will have to make some difficult concessions and even tolerate the insults of enemies. This is a year in which they should trust no one, including their best friends.

## The Year of the Rat—2008

A lucky and prosperous year, in which money comes from unexpected sources and new members are added to the Monkey's family.

## The Year of the Ox—2009

Pleasures and profits are limited this year, and the loss of some personal belongings is indicated. Family life runs smoothly, but the Monkey may be forced to travel or suffer from some chronic illness.## The Year of the Tiger—2010

The Monkey is very vulnerable this year and may be forced to flee, travel, or borrow money. A year to lie low and wait.

## The Year of the Rabbit—2011

A good year, as tranquility is restored at home and at work and new opportunities present themselves. The Monkey receives help from unlikely sources, although gains will be modest.

## Some Famous Monkeys

Milton Berle, Jacqueline Bisset, Montgomery Clift, Bette Davis, Charles Dickens, Michael Douglas, Frederico Fellini, Paul Gauguin, Mel Gibson, Rex Harrison, Mick Jagger, Lyndon Johnson, Edward Kennedy, David Lean, Leonardo da Vinci, Walter Matthau, Toshiro Mifune, John Milton, Maureen O'Hara, Peter O'Toole, Valerie Perrine, Nelson Rockefeller, Eleanor Roosevelt, Omar Sharif, James Stewart, Gene Tierney, Francois Truffaut, Harry Truman, Bai Yang, Andrew Young.